MUSC 51. First-Year Seminar: The Interplay of Music and Physics. 3 Credits.
How sound is produced in instruments, and how those sounds are used in music making. Wave motion, resonance, sound perception, scales, harmony, and music theory. Collaborative laboratory exercises to investigate the acoustics of string, woodwind, and brass instruments as well as study of the physics of keyboard and percussion instruments. Students will make instruments from found objects and perform compositions on them, and can pursue their areas of special interest in a research paper.

MUSC 52. First-Year Seminar: Building a Nation: The Stage Musicals of Rodgers and Hammerstein, 1942-1949. 3 Credits.
Oklahoma!, Carousel, and South Pacific in their political, social, and cultural contexts.

MUSC 53. First-Year Seminar: Rock 'n' Roll: The First Wave, 1955-1964. 3 Credits.
A sociomusical study of rock 'n' roll in its first decades.

MUSC 54. First-Year Seminar: Music and Magic. 3 Credits.
The perceived and actual relationships between music and magic in a range of historical periods.

MUSC 55H. First-Year Seminar: A Love Affair in Renaissance Drama and Music. 3 Credits.
Music and drama in Renaissance plays within the pastoral tradition.

MUSC 56. First-Year Seminar: Early-Modern Court Spectacle. 3 Credits.
Music and spectacle in the late medieval, Renaissance, and baroque courts of Europe.

MUSC 57. First-Year Seminar: Music and Drama: Verdi's Operas and Italian Romanticism. 3 Credits.
Textual and musical analysis of Verdi's operas (libretto and score) in their sociohistorical contexts.

MUSC 58. First-Year Seminar: Music in Motion: American Popular Music and Dance. 3 Credits.
The relationship and interplay between musical genres and social dance in different communities and eras.

MUSC 59. First-Year Seminar: 20th-Century Music and Visual Art. 3 Credits.
The relationship between music and the visual arts in the modernist and postmodernist periods viewed in their historical contexts.

MUSC 60H. First-Year Seminar: American Literature and Its Music. 3 Credits.
Music in, and musical settings of, American literature of the Romantic, modern, and postmodern periods.

MUSC 61H. First-Year Seminar: Reverberations. 3 Credits.
Musical crossovers in world musics and societies.

MUSC 62. First-Year Seminar: Vienna: City of Dreams. 3 Credits.
Vienna in the early 1900s as a locus for modernism. Honors version available.

MUSC 63. First-Year Seminar: Music on Stage and Screen. 3 Credits.
Offers tools and techniques for understanding multimedia, staged musical works like opera, musical theater, and film. The goal of the seminar is to develop students' analytical skills in verbal and nonverbal media and to encourage their visualization of the potential and implications of artistic forms and structures. Honors version available.

MUSC 64. First-Year Seminar: What is a Work of Art? Listening to Music. 3 Credits.
Musical aesthetics, musical works, and the nature of musical art.

MUSC 65. First-Year Seminar: Music and Culture: Understanding the World through Music. 3 Credits.
This seminar focuses on the variety of performances presented by Carolina Performing Arts at Memorial Hall. Through attendance at performances and through research on the performing artists and the works being performed, students explore questions such as, How does music reflect culture? How does the culture shape the art form?

MUSC 66. First-Year Seminar: A Course in Digital Humanities and Multimedia. 3 Credits.
Bring your own research ideas and learn how to design digital projects for them, including creating visualizations and audio widgets. Learn how to write grant applications for digital humanities, and explore virtual reality projects. Visit the immersion cave at NC State, talk with researchers at Duke's Wired! Lab, and work with programmers at UNC's own Digital Innovation Lab. This class has a particular focus on digital humanities, acoustics, and sound. Honors version available.

MUSC 89. First-Year Seminar: Special Topics. 3 Credits.
Special topics course. Content will vary each semester. Honors version available.

MUSC 100. Individual Keyboard Lessons. 0.5-1 Credits.
Individual lessons in piano, organ, or harpsichord. Sections by instructor.

MUSC 102. Individual Voice Lessons. 0.5-1 Credits.
Sections by instructor.

MUSC 103. Individual String Lessons. 0.5-1 Credits.
Individual lessons in violin, viola, cello, string bass, harp, guitar, banjo, or mandolin. Sections by instructor.

MUSC 104. Individual Woodwind Lessons. 0.5-1 Credits.
Individual lessons in flute, oboe, clarinet, saxophone, bassoon, or recorder. Sections by instructor.

MUSC 105. Individual Brass Lessons. 0.5-1 Credits.
Individual lessons in horn, trumpet, trombone, tuba, or euphonium. Sections by instructor.

MUSC 106. Individual Percussion Lessons. 0.5-1 Credits.
Sections by instructor.

MUSC 107. Applied Instruction. 0.5-1 Credits.
Group or individual instruction in a specified instrument offered by the department. Sections by instructor.

MUSC 110. Group Lessons in Piano. 1 Credits.
Beginning group piano for minors and nonmajors, including introduction to reading from score. May not count toward the requirements of the music major. May count as credit hours toward graduation, subject to the overall limit on music hours. Sections by instructor.

MUSC 111. Group Lessons in Voice. 1 Credits.
Beginning and intermediate group lessons for minors and nonmajors. Sections by instructor.

MUSC 112. Group Lessons in Strings. 1 Credits.
Group lessons in violin, viola, cello, string bass, or guitar. Sections by instructor.

MUSC 113. Group Lessons in Woodwinds. 1 Credits.
Group lessons in flute, oboe, clarinet, saxophone, bassoon, or recorder. Sections by instructor.

MUSC 114. Group Lessons in Brass. 1 Credits.
Group lessons in horn, trumpet, trombone, tuba, or euphonium. Sections by instructor.

MUSC 115. Group Lessons in Percussion. 1 Credits.
Sections by instructor.

MUSC 120. Foundations in Music. 3 Credits.
An introduction to concepts and methods fundamental to the study, practice, and performance of music. The course provides a foundation for undergraduate students interested in the study of music. Students will gain an appreciation for music's significance across repertories and develop the aptitude to think about music in different ways. Intended for music majors and minors.

MUSC 121. Fundamentals of Tonal Music I. 3 Credits.
Notational and theoretical materials of tonal music, with musicianship skills developed. Intended for the nonmajor who wishes to learn to express musical ideas in clear, correct notational form.

MUSC 122. Fundamentals of Music II. 3 Credits.
A continuation of MUSC 121 with the addition of basic instrumentation and arranging.

MUSC 123. Diction for Singers I (English/Italian). 1 Credits.
Basic principles of diction for singers in English/Italian presented through the use of the International Phonetic Alphabet.

MUSC 124. Diction for Singers II (French). 1 Credits.
Basic principles of diction and the International Phonetic Alphabet for singers in French.

MUSC 125. Diction for Singers III (German). 1 Credits.
Basic principles of diction and the International Phonetic Alphabet for singers in German.

MUSC 128. Improvisation Without Borders. 1 Credits.
This course is an introductory exploration of musical improvisation in non-style specific sound environments. An emphasis will be placed on learning through hands-on performance with one's instrument, voice, and/or computer.

MUSC 129. Aural-based Musicianship. 1 Credits.
This course is a study in ear-based performance and analysis, and engages with topics from applied music cognition. This course does not rely on conventional Western ''five-line staff'' musical notation.

MUSC 130. Tonal Musicianship Skills I. 1 Credits.
Basic tonal musicianship skills, including music notation, basic composition, score analysis, keyboard, sight singing, and ear training.

MUSC 131. Tonal Theory I. 3 Credits.
Enrollment subject to a placement test. An introduction to tonal music theory and analysis for students who intend to pursue a music degree. Course covers basic principles of melody, counterpoint, rhythm, and meter. Honors version available.

MUSC 132. Tonal Theory II. 3 Credits.
A continuation of MUSC 131, covering more advanced topics of melody, harmony, counterpoint, rhythm, meter, and form. Honors version available.

MUSC 133. Tonal Musicianship Skills II. 1 Credits.
A continuation of MUSC 130, with emphasis on intermediate-level musicianship skills.

MUSC 135. Jazz Theory. 3 Credits.
An introduction to the musical materials of jazz, including chord/scale relationships, functional keyboard skills, and harmonic analysis.

MUSC 136. Keyboard Skills I. 1 Credits.
Beginning group piano instruction for music majors.

MUSC 137. Patterns in Music. 3 Credits.
This course provides an introduction to music theory--defined as an examination of the underlying patterns deployed by composers, performers, and listeners in creating and comprehending music within a style--for students whose background is primarily aural and/or outside of the notational practices of Western art music or who want to undertake a study of music theory from that perspective.

MUSC 141. Survey of Western Music History. 3 Credits.
A chronological survey of the history of Western art music from the Middle Ages to the present. May not count toward the requirements of the music major. May count as credit hours toward graduation, subject to the overall limit on music hours.

MUSC 142. Great Musical Works. 3 Credits.
The study of selected works from the Western art tradition, with an emphasis on critical understanding. May not count toward the requirements of the music major. May count as credit hours toward graduation, subject to the overall limit on music hours.

MUSC 143. Introduction to Rock Music. 3 Credits.
A survey of rock music history, culture, and musical styles. The course includes extensive listening and an overview of the music's development and evolution.

MUSC 144. Introduction to Country Music. 3 Credits.
A survey and investigation of country music from 1920 to the present. This course addresses the music, history, culture, and meaning, across a broad and inclusive of styles, with, with emphasis on critical listening.

MUSC 145. Introduction to Jazz. 3 Credits.
A survey of jazz music from its origins to the present. The course builds skills in critical listening and blends discussion of musical materials and historical and cultural contexts.

MUSC 146. Introduction to World Musics. 3 Credits.
The study of music in and as culture. Topics may include the performance cultures of Native America, south Asia, Australia, Africa, east Asia, Southeast Asia, Europe, and the Americas.

MUSC 147. Introduction to the Music of the Américas. 3 Credits.
An introduction to contemporary Latin(o) American popular music, focusing on how musicians have negotiated an increasingly global popular culture industry.

MUSC 148. Introduction to Black Music. 3 Credits.
An introduction to black musical cultures with a focus on understanding how music is made within social, geographical, and political contexts. The course includes experiential learning, live concert attendance, and conversations with practicing musicians in various musical traditions.

MUSC 149. Introduction to Music and Dance. 3 Credits.
Music and dance as human expression, social ritual, and artistic performance across a wide range of repertories, practices, and historical periods.

MUSC 151. Introduction to the American Stage Musical. 3 Credits.
A topical survey of musical theater repertoire from its early inception in 18th-century Europe to current 21st-century incarnations. Various stylistic approaches, historical periods, and creative contributions to the genre will be explored. Examination of case studies through diverse perspectives of class, gender and race will situate the repertoire in a broad artistic and social context.

MUSC 155. The Art and Culture of the DJ. 3 Credits.
An exploration of the important, often misunderstood role of the DJ in modern musical life, with particular attention to the ways in which DJing challenges traditional notions of music, musicianship, and musical instruments. Guest lectures, demonstrations, and tutorials by visiting DJs form a significant component of the course.

MUSC 156. Beat Making Lab. 3 Credits.
An introductory hands-on study of the composition of electronic instrumental tracks for hip-hop and dance music. Students make beats, learn about the history and culture of the art form, and examine beat making as a case study in entrepreneurship.

MUSC 157. Rap Lab. 3 Credits.
A hands-on study of the art of emceeing. Students engage in a rigorous lyricism curriculum, developing the skills to write, recite, and improvise lyrics in live and recorded settings. Students also explore the history of hip-hop culture and analyze the aesthetics of emcees from around the world.

MUSC 158. Rock Lab. 3 Credits.
An introduction to issues of performance practice in rock music and related styles and genres including, but not limited to, soul, funk, new wave, and punk. Through intensive coaching and rehearsal students learn performance, transcription, arranging, and improvisation.

MUSC 161. Music Production I. 3 Credits.
An in-depth study of vintage and modern music production techniques for jazz, classical, hip-hop, R&B, rock EDM, folk, and other popular forms of music. A focus on digital and analog recording, Pro Tools, and other DAW software basics, microphone techniques, consoles, signal flow, mixing and mastering techniques.

MUSC 163. Jazz Improvisation I. 3 Credits.
An introductory course in the development of improvisational skills for the jazz idiom. The primary focus is the introduction of nomenclature, the development of basic jazz vocabulary, and the application of this knowledge using basic jazz tune types.

MUSC 164. Music of South Asia. 3 Credits.
This course provides a comprehensive overview of the music of South Asia, focusing on India, Pakistan, and Bangladesh. The entire spectrum of musical genres will be covered.

MUSC 166. Introduction to Composition. 3 Credits.
The study of compositional techniques and the development of individual creative styles through imitative and original writing.

MUSC 167. Instrumentation. 3 Credits.
Practical exercises in scoring and arranging for various combinations from single instrumental choirs to full concert orchestra, with trial group performances.

MUSC 168. Basic Conducting. 3 Credits.
Basic conducting techniques, score reading, and music performance evaluation for choral and instrumental groups.

MUSC 188. Introduction to Women and Music. 3 Credits.
The role of women in performance, composition, patronage, and the music business across a wide range of repertories.

MUSC 200. Advanced Individual Lessons in Keyboard. 2 Credits.
Advanced individual lessons in piano, organ, or harpsichord. Sections by instructor. Honors version available.

MUSC 202. Advanced Individual Lessons in Voice. 2 Credits.
Sections by instructor. Honors version available.

MUSC 203. Advanced Individual Lessons in Strings. 2 Credits.
Advanced individual lessons in violin, viola, cello, string bass, harp, or guitar. Sections by instructor. Honors version available.

MUSC 204. Advanced Individual Lessons in Woodwinds. 2 Credits.
Advanced individual lessons in flute, oboe, clarinet, saxophone, or bassoon. Sections by instructor. Honors version available.

MUSC 205. Advanced Individual Lessons in Brass. 2 Credits.
Advanced individual lessons in horn, trumpet, trombone, tuba, or euphonium. Sections by instructor. Honors version available.

MUSC 206. Advanced Individual Lessons in Percussion. 2 Credits.
Sections by instructor. Honors version available.

MUSC 207. Advanced Applied Instruction. 2 Credits.
Advanced instruction in a specified instrument offered by the department. Sections by instructor.

MUSC 211. Ensemble I. 1 Credits.
Sections by ensemble: Symphony Orchestra, Wind Ensemble, Symphony Band, Carolina Choir, Chamber Singers, Glee Club (tenor/bass voices), Glee Club (soprano/alto voices), Piano Ensemble I, Piano Ensemble II, Collaborative Piano, Guitar Ensemble, Jazz Band.

MUSC 212. Ensemble II. 1 Credits.
Sections by ensemble: UNC Opera, Percussion Ensemble, Gamelan, Charanga Carolina, Global Rhythms, Bluegrass Band, Hip Hop.

MUSC 213. Ensemble III. 1 Credits.
Sections by ensemble: Marching/ Pep Band, Jazz Lab Band, Chamber Orchestra, University Band.

MUSC 214. Chamber Music. 1 Credits.
Sections by ensemble: University Chamber Players, String Chamber Ensembles, Woodwind Chamber Ensembles, Brass Chamber Ensembles, Piano Chamber Ensembles, Jazz Combos, Baroque Ensemble/Viol Consort, New Music Ensemble. Honors version available.

MUSC 223. Piano Literature. 3 Credits.
Survey of keyboard literature from the Baroque era to the present.

MUSC 224. Piano Pedagogy. 3 Credits.
Problems, materials, and methods of teaching piano to students of all ages.

MUSC 225. Vocal Pedagogy. 3 Credits.
Practical methodology for teaching voice to students of all experience levels. Topics covered include anatomy, historical pedagogy, national vocal teaching styles, and current trends in voice science.

MUSC 226. Woodwinds, Brass, Percussion, and Strings Techniques. 3 Credits.
Primarily for students pursing teacher licensure. An introduction to basic performance skills on representative woodwind, brass, percussion, and string instruments.

MUSC 227. Keyboard, Vocal, and Elementary Music Techniques. 3 Credits.
Primarily for students pursuing teacher licensure. An introduction to basic performance skills in voice and piano, and approaches to teaching elementary music.

MUSC 228. Principles of Teaching Music. 3 Credits.
A continuation of MUSC 226 and 227, allowing students the opportunity to develop further performance skills and pedagogical techniques in music education. Offered in sections: instrumental, vocal, strings.

MUSC 230. Tonal Musicianship Skills III. 1 Credits.
A continuation of MUSC 133, with emphasis on intermediate- to advanced-level musicianship skills.

MUSC 232. Theory III. 3 Credits.
A continuation of MUSC 132, covering topics including chromatic harmony and form. Honors version available.

MUSC 233. Studies in Performance Practices. 3 Credits.
The study of vocal and instrumental performances practices in specific periods and repertories.

MUSC 234. World Musics in Theory and Practice. 3 Credits.
Through the use of various ethnomusicological methodologies, students explore a range of non-Western musical systems in their cultural contexts. Topics of study may include aesthetic theories, cultural meaning, and conflict.

MUSC 236. Keyboard Skills II. 1 Credits.
Continues group piano instruction for music majors begun in MUSC 136.

MUSC 239. Introduction to Music Technology. 3 Credits.
A practical study of selected aspects of computerized music technology, including one or more of music-notation software, MIDI sequencing, digital sound production and storage, and computer composition.

MUSC 240. Performance in Southeast Asia: Gongs, Punks, and Shadow Plays. 3 Credits.
The study and comparison of contemporary Southeast Asian performance genres (music, theatre, dance, ritual) in historical and cultural contexts.

MUSC 245. Dance in Indonesia. 3 Credits.
This course is concerned with the performance and interpretation of Indonesian dance. It covers three areas of study: practical learning of traditional Indonesian dance repertoire, theoretical analyses and interpretation, and learning the music accompanying the dance.

MUSC 248. Gender on the Musical Stage. 3 Credits.
An exploration of gender on the musical stage in the past and present, with an emphasis on female-identified creators and characters, onstage and behind the scenes.

MUSC 251. Studies in Medieval and Early Modern Music. 3 Credits.
The study of music in its historical and cultural contexts in the medieval and early modern eras. May not count toward the requirements of the music major. May count as credit hours toward graduation, subject to the overall limit on music hours.

MUSC 254. Studies in Music History I, Antiquity to 1750. 3 Credits.
A survey of music's development from antiquity to 1750, in its stylistic, geographical, political, social, and cultural contexts.

MUSC 255. Studies in Music History II, 1750 to the Present. 3 Credits.
A continuation of MUSC 254, surveying music of the period since 1750 in its stylistic, geographical, political, social, and cultural contexts.

MUSC 256. Advanced Beat Making Lab. 3 Credits.
Building upon the foundations of MUSC 156, this course prepares students in professional beat making techniques within various settings of the music industry. The course implements a module-based instruction model, emphasizing student development in creating multiple extended play projects (EPs) with different utilizations (studio, live performance, screen) concluding with the development of a Final Portfolio review, using the computer-based DAW Ableton 11, MIDI controllers, and synthesizers and samplers accessed in the Music Department's Beat Lab.

MUSC 258. Musical Movements: Migration, Exile, and Diaspora. 3 Credits.
The musical results of migrations of all types, voluntary or forced, by way of case studies drawn from historical and/or contemporary musics of Africa, the Americas, Asia, and Europe.

MUSC 261. Music Production II. 3 Credits.
As a continuation of MUSC 161, this course will include more advanced techniques in mixing, mastering, and music production. Listening and ear training with practical exercises will be explored. The work of notable engineers and producers will be looked at with an ear towards their production values and critical listening of the material.

MUSC 263. Jazz Improvisation II. 3 Credits.
Continuation of MUSC 163, examining more advanced improvisational techniques, harmonic materials, and compositional tune types.

MUSC 265. Jazz Composition and Arranging. 3 Credits.
Composing and arranging for small- and large-group jazz ensembles.

MUSC 266. Composition. 3 Credits.
May be repeated for credit. Original compositions in various forms.

MUSC 267. Orchestration. 3 Credits.
Practical orchestral scoring with emphasis on understanding and imitating historical styles from Mozart through Ravel.

MUSC 269. Music in the Community. 3 Credits.
Connecting academic inquiry in community music with an experiential project in the making, organization, or documentation of music locally.

MUSC 270. Critical Approaches to Music: Object Lessons. 3 Credits.
Critical approaches to the study of music through a variety of research approaches and sources, both visual and oral, examining meaning, expression, and values through close analysis.

MUSC 271. Critical Approaches to Music: Critical Moves. 3 Credits.
Critical approaches to understanding music as a human activity, including questions of embodiment, dis/ability, difference, and power through a variety of research approaches and sources, both visual and oral.

MUSC 280. Jazz Innovators. 3 Credits.
Musical, historical, cultural, and social issues in jazz studied through the examination of innovative and influential jazz artists.

MUSC 281. Popular Song in American Culture. 3 Credits.
The relationship between popular song and culture in American society is explored by focusing on an important historical repertoire or interpretive theme.

MUSC 282. Bach and Handel. 3 Credits.
The culmination of baroque music, emphasizing Bach's cantatas, concertos, organ music, and instrumental music, and Handel's oratorios and operas, all in their cultural contexts. May not count toward the requirements of the music major. May count as credit hours toward graduation, subject to the overall limit on music hours.

MUSC 283. Haydn and Mozart. 3 Credits.
The high point in Viennese music of the late 18th century, emphasizing Haydn's symphonies and quartets, and Mozart's operas and piano concertos. May not count toward the requirements of the music major. May count as credit hours toward graduation, subject to the overall limit on music hours.

MUSC 284. Beethoven and His Era. 3 Credits.
Beethoven's music will be studied in the context of social structures and concepts about artists during his lifetime. May not count toward the requirements of the music major. May count as credit hours toward graduation, subject to the overall limit on music hours.

MUSC 285. Musical Modernism. 3 Credits.
A study of the work of diverse composers characteristic of music since ca. 1880 viewed in their broader artistic and other contexts. May not count toward the requirements of the music major. May count as credit hours toward graduation, subject to the overall limit on music hours.

MUSC 286. Music as Culture. 3 Credits.
May be repeated for credit if on a different topic. Music in the framework of its social, political, economic, and cultural contexts. Honors version available.

MUSC 287. Opera as Drama. 3 Credits.
An introduction to music as related to drama, especially the development of opera and related genres. Study of selected works from different periods and styles. May not count toward the requirements of the music major. May count as credit hours toward graduation, subject to the overall limit on music hours. Honors version available.

MUSC 288. The Orchestra and Its Music. 3 Credits.
Study of the symphony orchestra, its instruments, and its historical development from the mid-18th century to the present, and the music it plays, including selected works in a variety of styles. May not count toward the requirements of the music major. May count as credit hours toward graduation, subject to the overall limit on music hours.

MUSC 289. Sounds of War and Revolution. 3 Credits.
Music's roles in war and revolution within various political, social, and cultural contexts. Part of the cluster "War, Revolution and Culture-Transatlantic Perspectives, 1750-1850."

MUSC 291. Music and Politics. 3 Credits.
The relationship between music and politics studied through a global range of historical and geographical contexts. The course covers specific musical and political manifestations as well as theoretical approaches to the issue.

MUSC 292. Media and Social Change in Africa. 3 Credits.
The historical and ongoing tradition of protest by African artists with particular focus on the aesthetics, politics, and geography of innovative grassroots movements on the African continent that effect social change through music and film.

MUSC 294. Bluegrass Music, Culture, and History. 3 Credits.
The history, culture, musical sound, and practice of bluegrass music, with an intensive focus on critical listening. Covers significant performers, musical styles, and both fan and performance culture and meaning.

MUSC 296. Special Studies for Undergraduates. 1-3 Credits.
Available only to music majors by permission of the director of undergraduate studies. Intensive study on a particular topic under faculty supervision.

MUSC 300. Advanced Keyboard Lessons and Recital. 3 Credits.
Advanced individual keyboard lessons leading to a public recital.

MUSC 302. Advanced Voice Lessons and Recital. 3 Credits.
Advanced individual voice lessons leading to a public recital. Honors version available.

MUSC 303. Advanced String Lessons and Recital. 3 Credits.
Advanced individual string lessons leading to a public recital. Honors version available.

MUSC 304. Advanced Woodwind Lessons and Recital. 3 Credits.
Advanced individual woodwind lessons leading to a public recital. Honors version available.

MUSC 305. Advanced Brass Lessons and Recital. 3 Credits.
Advanced individual brass lessons leading to a public recital. Honors version available.

MUSC 306. Advanced Percussion Lessons and Recital. 3 Credits.
Advanced individual percussion lessons leading to a public recital. Honors version available.

MUSC 307. Advanced Composition/Recital. 3 Credits.
This course is conceived as a culminating project that showcases a student's original musical compositions.

MUSC 308. Intermediate Lessons in Conducting. 3 Credits.
Intermediate conducting for instrumental or vocal ensembles.

MUSC 309. Advanced Lessons in Conducting. 3 Credits.
May be repeated for up to six hours of credit. Advanced conducting for instrumental or choral ensembles.

MUSC 330. Advanced Study in Music Theory. 3 Credits.
This course will address a particular issue in music theory as it pertains to a genre, repertoire, composer, questions of harmony, rhythm, form or musical structure in Western, non-Western, jazz, or popular musics. Subject matter will vary with instructor. May be repeated for credit if on a different topic. Permission of instructor required.

MUSC 331. Musical Form and Analysis. 3 Credits.
The study of analytical techniques as applied to significant works of the period.

MUSC 332. Counterpoint. 3 Credits.
The study of two-, three-, and four-voice counterpoint, for example in the style of Palestrina, Bach, or 20th-century idioms.

MUSC 333. Analysis of Popular Music. 3 Credits.
Analysis and transcription of blues, rock, ballads, and jazz, with an emphasis on rock music since 1955.

MUSC 338. Analysis of Music since 1900. 3 Credits.
The study of analytical techniques as applied to significant works of the period.

MUSC 351. Critical Approaches to Music: Guided Research. 3 Credits.
An intensive research-based course resulting in an original paper and/or creative work on a topic of the student's own development and presentation of the same.

MUSC 355. History and Culture of Music. 3 Credits.
Course will address a particular genre, composer, compositional issue, or repertoire, including non-Western and popular musics. Subject matter will vary with the instructor. May be repeated for credit if on a different topic. Honors version available.

MUSC 363. Studies in Jazz. 3 Credits.
May be repeated for credit if on a different topic. Advanced study on a selected topic in jazz. Topics will vary and may address a particular genre, composer, performance practice, compositional issue, or repertoire.

MUSC 364. UNC Summer Jazz Workshop. 3 Credits.
Lectures on theory and improvisation, small ensemble coaching, and instrument-specific master classes in a classroom/lecture format. Intensive listening component through required attendance at four evening concerts. Final public student concert for a community audience. Can be repeated for credit.

MUSC 366. Scoring for Film and Video Games. 3 Credits.
Practical, hands-on training in the art of composing music for film and video games. In addition to analyzing and discussing influential film/game music, the course develops skills such as orchestration, underscoring, musical narrative, and thematic development. Students enrolled in the course are expected to have some prior experience composing and notating music for a variety of instruments and ensembles.

MUSC 381. Inside the Song: Analysis of Songcraft. 3 Credits.
Explore form, structure, and narrative in American popular song during the era of recorded sound. Students will analyze the elements of different songs -- melody, lyrics, harmony, musical arrangement, form, narrative, and structure. Students will write songs using different models and forms; edit and revise their songs; and perform those songs publicly. Familiarity with basic chords and melodies expected.

MUSC 390. Seminar in Music. 3 Credits.
Detailed investigation of a specific musical topic from historical and/or theoretical perspectives. Honors version available.

MUSC 471. Instrumental Performance Repertory. 3 Credits.
Advanced study of selected performance issues.

MUSC 493. Music Internship. 3 Credits.
Permission of the director of undergraduate studies. Internship directly related to the study, practice, or the business of music. Students must complete at least 100 hours and submit a journal and report upon completion of the internship. No more than three credit hours may count toward the requirements of the music major. Excess hours may count as credit hours toward graduation, subject to the overall limit on music hours.

MUSC 676. Digital Media and Live Performance. 3 Credits.
Permission of the instructor for undergraduates. Intended for students from various majors, this course provides a foundation in the history, theory, and practice of developing live, technologically-intensive, multimedia performance works. The course analyzes new media masterworks, addresses techniques of interdisciplinary collaboration, and offers workshops in specific software/technology applications.

MUSC 691H. Senior Honors Thesis in Music I. 3 Credits.
Admission by permission of the honors advisor. Independent study by a student who has been designated a candidate for undergraduate honors in music.

MUSC 692H. Senior Honors Thesis in Music II. 3 Credits.
Continuance and completion of an honors thesis in music.

MUSC 750. Resources and Methods of Musicology I. 3 Credits.
Introduction to the field of musicology, including its scope, methodology, and bibliography. Taught in three-week modules, each directed by a different member of the academic faculty. Individual modules will include music history, music theory, ethnomusicology, music aesthetics, and cultural studies.

MUSC 751. Resources and Methods of Musicology II. 3 Credits.
When offered, continuation of MUSC 750.

MUSC 830. Proseminar in Music Theory. 3 Credits.
No description available.

MUSC 850. Proseminar in Musicology. 3 Credits.
No description available.

MUSC 870. Proseminar in Ethnomusicology. 3 Credits.
No description available.

MUSC 890. Special Studies. 3 Credits.
The faculty assists and advises graduate students in work on particular research projects. Available to musicology graduate students only (M.A.T. students taking special studies must register under MUSC 471).

MUSC 930. Seminar in Music Theory. 3 Credits.
No description available.

MUSC 950. Seminar in Musicology. 3 Credits.
No description available.

MUSC 970. Seminar in Ethnomusicology. 3 Credits.
No description available.

MUSC 991. Dissertation Colloquium. 1.5 Credits.
Forum for group discussion of on-going dissertation work and professional development.

MUSC 993. Master's Research and Thesis. 3 Credits.
No description available.

MUSC 994. Doctoral Research and Dissertation. 3 Credits.
No description available.

