ARAB 101. Elementary Arabic I. 4 Credits.
First semester of Arabic language instruction, comprising both Modern Standard Arabic and one spoken dialect. Coursework includes Arabic script, basic grammar and vocabulary, and culturally relevant activities.

ARAB 102. Elementary Arabic II. 4 Credits.
Second semester of Arabic language instruction, comprising both Modern Standard Arabic and one spoken dialect. Coursework includes expanded grammar and vocabulary and culturally relevant activities.

ARAB 150. Introduction to Arab Cultures. 3 Credits.
Introduction to the cultures of the Arab world and of the Arabs in diasporas: art, literature, film, music, food, history, etc.

ARAB 151. Arabic Literature through the Ages. 3 Credits.
Introduces the rich literary heritage of the Arabic language from pre-Islamic to modern times and covers major genres. Emphasis on critical thinking, literary analysis, and academic writing.

ARAB 203. Intermediate Arabic I. 4 Credits.
Third semester of Arabic language instruction, comprising both Modern Standard Arabic and one spoken dialect. Coursework includes expanded grammar and vocabulary, and culturally relevant activities.

ARAB 204. Intermediate Arabic II. 4 Credits.
Fourth semester of Arabic language instruction, comprising both Modern Standard Arabic and one spoken dialect. Coursework includes expanded grammar and vocabulary, and culturally relevant activities.

ARAB 211. Arab Comics. 3 Credits.
This course examines the history and present production and circulation of comics in the Arab world. It explores how comics and graphic novels provide an alternative lens for learning about the Arab world, while at the same time introducing students to this form of art and medium of communication. Readings are composed of both primary materials in translation (comics books, graphic novels, webcomics) and secondary readings that provide historical, social, and cultural context.

ARAB 214. Medicine in the Arab World. 3 Credits.
This course introduces students to questions of medicine in the Arab world, from medieval times to the present with an emphasis on the contemporary period. It takes medicine as a lens for understanding the formation of the Arab world, connecting medical practices and institutions with wider formations like colonialism, nationalism, violence, or religion.

ARAB 255. Arab World Photography. 3 Credits.
Introduces students to the practice of photography in the Arab world, beginning with Orientalist photography by European travelers and early Arab portraiture, and then addressing photography in relation to self expression and recent social and political circumstances. What types of images do people in the region make for themselves and to what purpose? Students will read extensively about photography and the Arab world, view and discuss images, complete short photo assignments, and write papers.

ARAB 300. Arabic Grammar and Composition. 3 Credits.
Intensive grammar review and composition to improve accuracy and develop writing skills in Modern Standard Arabic.

ARAB 305. Advanced Arabic I. 3 Credits.
Fifth semester of Arabic language instruction, comprising both Modern Standard Arabic and one spoken dialect. Coursework includes intensive reading of a variety of texts; films, oral presentations, and writing; extensive vocabulary development.

ARAB 306. Advanced Arabic II. 3 Credits.
Sixth semester of Arabic language instruction, comprising both Modern Standard Arabic and one spoken dialect. Coursework includes intensive reading of a variety of texts; films, oral presentations, and writing; extensive vocabulary development.

ARAB 308. Arabic Languages across the Curriculum Recitation. 1 Credits.
Arabic recitation offered in conjunction with selected content courses. Weekly discussion and readings in Arabic relating to attached content courses.

ARAB 337. Borders and Walls in the Arab World. 3 Credits.
Can art, film, and literature undo cultural, social, and political divisions created by borders and walls in the Arab world?

ARAB 350. Women and Leadership in the Arab World. 3 Credits.
A service-learning, study abroad course focusing on women and leadership in the Arab world. Topics include women and religion, family, community and selfhood, citizenship and legal rights, and politics.

ARAB 354. Everyday Lives in the Middle East: Anthropological Perspectives. 3 Credits.
The course introduces students to patterns of everyday life in the contemporary Middle East. From an anthropological perspective the course explores a variety of topics such as gender, religion, politics, the economy, urban life, and popular culture.

ARAB 407. Readings in Arabic I. 3 Credits.
Classical and/or modern readings in Arabic and discussions in conversational Arabic, according to the students' interest.

ARAB 408. Readings in Arabic II. 3 Credits.
Classical and/or modern readings in Arabic and discussions in conversational Arabic, according to the students' interest.

ARAB 409. Performing Arts in the Arab World. 3 Credits.
This is an advanced Arabic course in which students develop reading, writing, speaking, listening, and intercultural skills through the study of various forms of performance, including theater, music, dance, poetry, and film, from across the Arab world.

ARAB 410. Visual Arts in the Arab World. 3 Credits.
This is an advanced Arabic course in which students develop reading, writing, speaking, listening, and intercultural skills through the study of various images, films, and readings about visual culture in the Arab world.

ARAB 432. Science and Society in the Middle East. 3 Credits.
This class explores science and society in the modern Middle East. Drawing on works from anthropology and history, it investigates how science interacts with, is shaped by, and reflects wider processes and formations such as nationalism, colonialism, religion, subject formation, or cultural production. Previously offered as ARAB 353.

ARAB 434. Modern Arabic Literature in Translation. 3 Credits.
We will study fiction from several countries in the Arab world with a particular emphasis on recent works. This literature has arisen out of the lived experiences of people in the Arab world, but each work creates a world of its own. What strategies do writers use for this world-making? What relationships might exist between these fictional worlds and their writing contexts? Who is addressed by these works? Previously offered as ARAB 334.

ARAB 453. Film, Nation, and Identity in the Arab World. 3 Credits.
Introduction to history of Arab cinema from 1920s to present. Covers film industries in various regions of the Arab world and transnational Arab film. All materials and discussion in English.

ARAB 496. Independent Readings in Arabic. 1-3 Credits.
Permission of the department. For the student who wishes to create and pursue an independent project in Arabic under the supervision of a selected instructor. Maximum three credit hours per semester.

ARAB 681. Readings in Islamicate Literatures. 3 Credits.
Permission of the instructor. Study of selected religious, literary, and historical texts in Arabic, Persian, or Urdu.

