EDUC 65. First-Year Seminar: School Daze: What's School Got to do with Getting an Education?. 3 Credits.
This seminar explores the concepts of schooling and education. Students will be challenged to reconsider their experiences and notions about pre-K through 12 schooling and to examine alternatives.

EDUC 89. First-Year Seminar: Special Topics. 3 Credits.
Course content will vary each semester.

EDUC 101. First Year Thriving. 2 Credits.
The course will introduce students to the scholarship on transitions and potential paths for thriving at a liberal arts institution. Students apply research on learning science, emerging adulthood, cultural competence, and well-being to enhance their own experience. First year students only.

EDUC 111. Career Exploration. 1 Credits.
Career Exploration is a designed to expose first and second year students to career development theories, while providing a framework for exploring and discovering their interests and skills. Previously offered as EDUC 131. No seniors.

EDUC 121. Tutoring in the Schools I. 2 Credits.
Provides a basic introduction to teaching and education. This course consists of a seminar based with field placements in different levels of schools.

EDUC 122. Tutoring in the Schools II. 1 Credits.
Combines tutoring training with a field placement for tutoring in literacy and mathematics in grades kindergarten through three.

EDUC 130. Navigating the Research University. 1 Credits.
This course will provide students with knowledge to succeed at a research university. Students will consider what it means to have a liberal arts education and will learn about motivation, resiliency, and self-advocacy. Students will reflect on their current work toward academic success and their path to graduation.

EDUC 140. Sources of Strength Leadership. 3 Credits.
This course is characterized by three major components: 1.) training student leaders in basic principles of prevention science and strengths-based approaches; 2.) providing space, guidance, and support to facilitate the creation and execution of community campaigns to promote building and harnessing of protective factors; 3.) easing the transition to college by welcoming students into a supportive and small cohort, building relationships with faculty, and learning real-life applications of the psychological science of wellbeing.

EDUC 149. Experiential Education and Civic Identity. 1 Credits.
The course will introduce students to the history and contemporary scholarship of experiential education. It will explore high impact practices in higher education and the role that experiences such as Outward Bound expeditionary education courses can play in an undergraduate student's development and success in college and on the development of civic identity. 28-day Outward Bound course or similar expeditionary education experiences per instructor discretion.

EDUC 150. The Science of Learning (Intensive). 1 Credits.
This course is an abbreviated and intensive version of EDUC 330: The Science of Learning. It is designed to optimize the beliefs and techniques critical for thriving at a rigorous university. Students will be exposed to research, particularly from cognitive psychology and behavioral neuroscience, which identifies the most effective methods of learning. Participants will also be given opportunities to implement such methods. Students may not receive credit for both EDUC 150 and EDUC 330.

EDUC 181. Introduction to Human Development and Family Science. 3 Credits.
This course introduces students to Human Development & Family Science (HDFS) as an integrated and applied discipline. Students will explore major theories and research areas in HDFS and make practical connections to careers in the helping professions, such as teaching, social work, counseling, and therapies (speech/ language, occupational, physical, etc.).

EDUC 190. Special Topics in Education. 1-3 Credits.
This course provides students the opportunity for introductory exploration and discussion of selected topics in education.

EDUC 211. Career Planning and Job Searching. 1 Credits.
This course is designed for juniors and seniors who are preparing to embark on their post-Carolina job search. Students will learn how to develop the necessary tools and skills required to execute an effective job search, while understanding and applying theoretical concepts related to strengths, adaptability, and resilience in career development. Course previously offered as EDUC 132. No first year students.

EDUC 221. Tutoring in the Schools III. 1 Credits.
Combines tutoring training with a field placement for tutoring in literacy and mathematics in grades four through eight.

EDUC 222. Tutoring in the Schools IV. 1 Credits.
Focuses on the relationship among arts, creativity, and education.

EDUC 230. Thriving After the First Year: Accessing High Impact Opportunities. 1 Credits.
The course is designed primarily to help students identify and access meaningful HIPs aligned with their individual values, needs, and goals. Students will be guided to ask critical and reflexive questions that will help them describe and link their unique purpose at the university with their potential contributions to the world. The course includes substantive content on student belonging and student engagement. Not open to first-year students.

EDUC 231. The Science of Well-Being. 3 Credits.
Students will learn the science of well-being for emerging adulthood. The course will bridge contemporary literature on development, non-cognitive factors, positive psychology (e.g., hope, optimism) and more. Learn and invest in your well-being as a student at UNC-Chapel Hill and beyond. No First-year students.

EDUC 240. Introduction to Educational Studies. 3 Credits.
This course provides a comprehensive overview of educational studies through an exploration of education's foundational questions. In exploring these questions, the course adopts a multi-disciplinary approach, carefully considering and comparing how scholars from diverse viewpoints and disciplinary backgrounds--including history, philosophy, sociology, economics, and psychology--have considered the purpose and aims of education for individuals, communities, and societies.

EDUC 250. Risk and Resiliency: Challenges and Opportunities in Education. 4 Credits.
Explores factors that put children at risk for educational failure and interventions to increase resiliency. Service and learning experiences in educational and community agencies are integral to the course.

EDUC 257. Inquiry and Data Applications. 3 Credits.
This course focuses on the organizational context within which leaders work, and the internal reform initiatives that leaders leverage for organizational improvement. Using analysis, discussion, and reflection, students will examine real issues confronting organizational leaders and the processes of inquiry that leaders use to address these issues. Students will study several foundational topics in social science research with application to organizational life.

EDUC 301. Junior Transfer Seminar - Thriving in Transition. 3 Credits.
Course challenges students to think critically about educational issues as they transition to a research university. Through readings, videos and activities, students explore the value of higher education, the development of intelligence, and the role of habit and happiness in college success. Students also conduct and present original qualitative research.

EDUC 307. Mathematics in Elementary Schools. 3 Credits.
The course will focus on learning of selected topics in number and algebra via problem solving with attention to the quality of mathematical knowledge needed for teaching these topics in elementary and middle schools. Will discuss how students develop these ideas over time and the alignment to the sequencing of ideas in this course. Some of the kinds of knowledge that we expect you to develop include: Knowledge of the integrity of the discipline.

EDUC 309. Foundations of Leadership. 3 Credits.
A three-credit seminar on leadership styles, philosophies, and issues related to leadership. Each class will overlap these concepts (topical or theory/practice, service, and self-awareness.)

EDUC 311. Life-Career Design. 3 Credits.
This course examines the contemporary research in career development (e.g. happiness, purpose, decision-making, values, experiential learning). The course guides students to use design thinking to apply the concepts to life action plans. Students will increase self-awareness and self-advocacy to maximize their potential and envision multiple pathways for further education and life-work balance. Sophomores, juniors, and seniors only.

EDUC 316. Advanced Leadership Development Seminar. 3 Credits.
This is a three-credit course with a focus on delving deeper into issues relevant to leadership and education. This course is open to seniors, juniors, and sophomores with student organization experience and an interest in an advanced exploration of leadership.

EDUC 317. Dynamics of Effective Leadership. 1 Credits.
The course is intended to provide an introduction to leadership theory, a forum for reflection upon personal strengths and contributions to leadership, and an opportunity to explore the nature of working in teams and groups.

EDUC 318. Peer Leadership in the University Environment. 2 Credits.
This course revolves around and centers on the Relational Leadership Model which defines leadership as the relational and ethical process of people together attempting to accomplish positive change.

EDUC 320. Navigating Education in Borderlands. 3 Credits.
This course provides students a preliminary introduction to qualitative research methods as a mechanism for critically examining the concept of borders and implications for students' own educational experiences. While immersed in a geographic borderlands space, students will explore the "border" as not just the physical border between Mexico and the US, but as Gloria Anzaldúa presents in her 1987 book Borderlands/ La Frontera, as a "psychic, social, and cultural terrain that we inhabit".

EDUC 325. Introduction to Counseling and Coaching. 3 Credits.
This course provides students with an overview of the major counseling and group work theories, an introduction to individual and group work counseling techniques, the conditions that facilitate an effective working relationship with clients across the lifespan applying cultural awareness and sensitivity, the general stages in group and individual counseling processes, and professional ethics. The course also provides an overview of coaching as a method of helping families thrive. Course restricted to majors.

EDUC 330. The Science of Learning. 3 Credits.
Students study several facets of learning in the modern world, and investigate what scholarship in cognitive psychology, educational psychology, and the learning sciences can do to help us maximize that learning.

EDUC 349. Adulting. 3 Credits.
The course critically analyzes the contemporary and cultural application of emerging adulthood theory. Themes center on identity, competence, managing emotions, purpose, intimacy, civic engagement, and more. Practical learning and skills surrounding financial literacy are included. Students co-create core adulting skills through research and skill demonstrations. Sophomores, juniors, and seniors only.

EDUC 357. Organizational and Community Development. 3 Credits.
In this course, we make organizations an object of study. Together, we will ask: Where do organizations come from? What accounts for their success and failure? And, most importantly, what can each of us do to make the organizations that we are part of better serve us all? Organizations include hospitals, nursing homes, schools, neighborhoods, clubs, and various workplaces.

EDUC 375. Identity and Sexuality. 3 Credits.
This course will guide students in the examination of the vital role that sexuality, sexual identity, gender, race and class play in families, communities, and educational settings. These and other socio-cultural factors, which often intersect and are embedded in historic ways of constructing what it means to be "normal," fundamentally shape how individuals understand themselves, their place in the world, as well as others around them.

EDUC 387. Peer Tutoring. 3 Credits.
Peer Tutoring is an APPLES service-learning course that provides undergraduates the opportunity to serve fellow students through tutoring. Tutors must have an overall GPA of 3.0 or higher.

EDUC 390. Special Topics in Education. 3 Credits.
This course provides students the opportunity for intensive exploration and discussion of selected topics in education.

EDUC 400. Autism in Our Communities: An Interdisciplinary Perspective. 3 Credits.
Students have 30 hours of service-learning with individuals with autism at community partner sites. Class discussions introduce students to diverse topics related to autism spectrum disorder. This is an APPLES course.

EDUC 401. Childhood Development: Prenatal Birth to Age 12. 3 Credits.
This course examines the field of child development as it contributes to the teaching and learning of children in early childhood and elementary educational settings, ages prenatal to age 12.

EDUC 402. Models of Early Childhood Service Delivery. 3 Credits.
This seminar serves as an introduction to the field of child development and early childhood education and special education. Students learn about the primary professional disciplines and agencies serving young children and their families. Current policy, recommended practices, and research innovations are reviewed.

EDUC 403. Individuals, Families, and Communities in Diverse Contexts. 3 Credits.
This course examines issues of diversity among and across families, in order to better prepare students for human service fields in a variety of settings such as clinics, schools, advocacy, and other organizations.

EDUC 404. Infant/Toddler Assessment and Intervention. 3 Credits.
Restricted to majors. Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Provides students with knowledge of program models and curricula/intervention strategies for working with infants and toddlers with and without disabilities. Information is provided regarding identification and assessment strategies for infants, toddlers, and two-year-olds. Program models for working with families are emphasized.

EDUC 405. Parenting and Family Life Education. 3 Credits.
This course is a lifespan approach to parent-child relationships and implications for enhancing the well-being of families. A major focus will be on research and theory regarding parenting during the different stages of the lifespan.

EDUC 408. Research Methods in Human Development. 3 Credits.
An introductory examination of human development and family research methods designed to provide an understanding of scientific inquiry, methodology, measurement, test construction, scaling, and statistical terms and techniques.

EDUC 410. Families and Communities in Diverse Contexts for Youth. 3 Credits.
This course is an exploration of the research and theory about programs that promote youth development and prevent youth problems in the diverse contexts where youth function (i.e., home, school, outside of school activities, sports, peer networks, etc.). Career options (e.g., social work, law enforcement, teaching, and community outreach work) will also be explored through sociocultural lenses.

EDUC 411. Making Liberal Arts "Work". 3 Credits.
Learn how to translate the outcomes of a liberal arts education to the world of work. The course will engage students in connecting one's intellectual and practical learning, as well as individual and social responsibilities to contemporary career skills and life-career design. Critical reflection on concurrent and diverse internship experience is utilized to contextualize skills and further explicate career identity working in a knowledge and digital ecology. Permission of the instructor for students with fewer than 8 hours of weekly work.

EDUC 413. Language and Literacy Learning. 3 Credits.
Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. This course covers the theoretical and developmental aspects of language and literacy processes and practices. The course will cover reading, writing, speaking, listening and viewing practices, birth to age 12.

EDUC 415. Schooling of Immigrant Children. 3 Credits.
This course introduces students to immigration-related schooling issues in the United States and North Carolina. Students will use scholarly writings by both theorists and practitioners as well as narratives from immigrant students and their parents to study the impacts of migration on education as a transnational, transcultural, and translingual process. The course includes an overview of immigration-related education policies and practices; issues of assimilation, acculturation, and identity; and other relevant topics.

EDUC 416. Curriculum Integration: Science, Math, and Technology. 3 Credits.
Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. The focus of this course is children's development in mathematical and scientific ways of knowing and the use of technology to support this development.

EDUC 418. Ethics of Care for the Hospitalized Child and Family. 3 Credits.
The course introduces learners to issues related to pediatric care during hospitalization and illness in childhood and adolescence. It provides an overview of the multiple roles that health professionals, families, and child life specialists play in providing support for recovery and bereavement. Additionally, it explores the developmental and psychological needs of hospitalized children, their families, and those who provide services to children. The course will also examine the ethics of care for child life specialists.

EDUC 421. Community Organizations and Children I. 1 Credits.
Provides an understanding of the community contexts of schools and an experience working in community group. This is the first semester of two-semester course.

EDUC 422. Community Organizations and Children II. 1 Credits.
Provides prospective teachers with an understanding of the community contexts of the schools. Second semester of a two-semester course.

EDUC 461I. Exploring Social Determinants of Health Across Populations. 3 Credits.
This seminar allows students to explore how social determinants of health affect the health of populations.

EDUC 464. Teaching Profession. 3 Credits.
Introduction to teaching. Course covers foundations and philosophies of education, current issues, and trends in public schooling.

EDUC 465. Introduction to Teaching. 2 Credits.
Offered concurrently with EDUC 466. Restricted to students admitted to the middle grades teacher education program. Initiates students into the teaching profession. The course stresses what it is like to be a teacher, with concurrent emphasis on the life of the student and the study of schools.

EDUC 466. Planning for Teaching in the Middle Grades. 3 Credits.
Offered concurrently with EDUC 465. Restricted to students admitted to the middle grades teacher education program. Helps students learn how to plan and develop skills to meet the unique and diverse needs of young adolescents as they prepare to teach.

EDUC 469. Developing Skills for Teaching. 3 Credits.
Helps students develop a variety of basic teaching skills used by classroom teachers. This course will be conducted primarily as a laboratory course.

EDUC 470. Therapeutic Value of Play. 3 Credits.
This course examines various theoretical models of play and development in clinical, health, and school settings. Students are taught basic skills to create therapeutic play environments and to respond to the intellectual, emotional, and social needs of children in schools, hospitals, and other therapeutic settings. HDFS majors or permission from the program coordinator.

EDUC 472. System Improvement and Implementation at Scale. 3 Credits.
A collaborative, experiential, and data-driven course for understanding and facilitating organizational learning and change. Students will complete an "improvement research project" based on their own personal interests and/or in partnership with practitioners in an organizational setting. Students will direct their course of study around three core questions: What is the specific problem I am trying to solve? What change might I introduce and why? How will I know whether the change is actually an improvement?

EDUC 475. Child and Family Health. 3 Credits.
This course serves to integrate our core field of human development and family studies with other public health issues and professions to help improve understanding of factors impacting the health and well-being of children, youth, and families. The course blends human development theories, family systems theories, and health promotion theories to better understand the health experiences of individuals across the lifespan.

EDUC 480. Resource Management for Individuals and Families. 3 Credits.
This course examines individual and family resource management. Students will develop skills related to importance of time management, financial planning and budgeting, consumer decision-making, and allocation of resources to the well-being of children, youth, and families. The course also examines issues related to grant writing, consumer economics, conflict resolution, poverty alleviation, work-family balance, and stress management.

EDUC 493. Practicum. 1-6 Credits.
Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Students gain familiarity with the operations and complexity of teaching. Students observe instruction, assist in teaching, learn about the curriculum and specific resources, interact with school personnel, work with students, and apply skills learned in previous courses. Prepares students for internship or student teaching.

EDUC 496. Independent Study. 1-3 Credits.
Permission of the instructor. Provides readings and research under the direction of a faculty member. May be repeated for a maximum of six credit hours.

EDUC 501. Adolescent and Adulthood Development: A Cross-Cultural. 3 Credits.
This course examines biological, cognitive, psychological, and social development in adolescence and adulthood. Students will examine these milestones in development as they vary by gender, race/ethnicity, sexual orientation, ability, socio-economic status, education, and other contextual/cross-cultural factors. The course includes an examination of how adolescents and adults function within families, social networks, schools, media, and work.

EDUC 503. Leadership Seminar. 1-3 Credits.
Course asks students to consider what it means to participate in schools as educational leaders. Students consider how to collaborate effectively with school colleagues, advocate for children and families, participate in the politics of schools and education, and examine what it means to be change agents in classrooms and schools.

EDUC 504. Learning in the Modern World. 3 Credits.
Students learn about current educational emphases and controversies as well as what the research and scholarship in the fields of education and cognition can contribute to our understanding of these phenomena.

EDUC 505. Leadership in Educational/Nonprofit Settings. 3 Credits.
Introduces students to a research-based, highly practical understanding of leadership frames/styles prominent in educational/nonprofit organizations. Emphasizes continued student engagement with various leadership models and principles.

EDUC 506. Politics, Policymaking, and America's Schools. 3 Credits.
Through extensive case study and conversations with policy actors, students will learn the stages model of policy making and understand conflicting values that play out in policy decisions.

EDUC 507. Arts, Education, and Social Change. 3 Credits.
An exploration of the function and history of art in educational and social change movements. In this course students use a critical approach to examine various forms of art and expression as they relate to education.

EDUC 508. Equity, Leadership, and You. 3 Credits.
This course was developed to confront and address questions of global cultural competence and self-critique. Culturally competent leaders work to understand their own biases and patterns of discrimination.

EDUC 509. Helping Youth Thrive in K-12 Schools. 3 Credits.
Learn strengths-oriented approaches in education practice, research, and policy. The course takes up contemporary literature on positive psychology, developmental assets, resiliency, cultural competence, school readiness, school engagement/ connectedness, and positive youth development.

EDUC 510. Latinx Experience in Education. 3 Credits.
Course examines the social-historical, cultural, and political contexts that shape the educational experience of Mexican Americans/Chicanxs and the broader Latinx community. Using critical race theory, paying attention to issues of cultural identity and agency as we move across various geopolitical dimensions of contestation, resistance, and immigration, including the southwestern U.S. and new Latinx diaspora spaces - namely the US South. Including critically exploring PreK-12 schools, higher education, and social initiatives to address inequities in education.

EDUC 512. Critical Examination of Racism and Education: African American Case Example. 3 Credits.
This course examines previous and present eras in American education from a critical race perspective. Critiques will feature dominant or majoritarian narratives (widely adopted accounts often taught as part of an institution's curriculum) and counter narratives in regards to racism with the education of Blacks in America serving as a case example.

EDUC 513. Methods for Teaching in the Elementary School. 3-9 Credits.
Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. This methods block is a field based, integrated collection of science, literacy, and math courses designed to prepare pre-service teachers for planning and implementing instruction in elementary schools.

EDUC 515. The Arts as Integrative Teaching. 2 Credits.
Restricted to students admitted to the elementary education program or the child development and family studies program. Explores integration of the arts in the curriculum.

EDUC 516. Introduction to the Education of Exceptional Learners. 3 Credits.
Offers an overview of the special education field and its relevance to the classroom teacher. The course is based on an interdisciplinary perspective toward serving exceptional learners and collaboratively coordinating services. Course content emphasizes inclusive programming and the teacher's role in facilitating students' unique learning needs.

EDUC 517. Educational Partnership Through Program Evaluation. 3 Credits.
A practical introduction to theory and methodology in program evaluation, emphasizing partnership with educational organizations.

EDUC 518. Exploring Public Pedagogies through Popular Culture. 3 Credits.
The generally accepted broad understanding of the term "public pedagogy" is that it refers to "the learning and education happening outside of formal schooling systems." Public pedagogy as a growing field explores how "spaces of learning such as popular culture, the Internet, public spaces such as museums and parks, and other civic and commercial spaces, including both old and new social movements," are potential "sites of pedagogy containing possibilities for both reproduction and resistance."

EDUC 519. Senior Seminar. 3 Credits.
Course is restricted to majors. Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. The senior seminar is inquiry based and directly connects student teachers with classroom practices. Throughout the semester student teachers develop and implement inquiry projects.

EDUC 520. Early Language and Literacy Learning-Birth to Third Grade. 3 Credits.
Course is restricted to majors. Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Course focuses on the language, reading, and writing development of children birth through third grade. Promotes early literacy learning for all children with and without disabilities, including those at risk.

EDUC 521. Schools, Cultures, and Communities I: Youth. 3 Credits.
Focus on youth in schools. This course considers the history and present lives of youth, primarily as teenagers/adolescents. It seeks recognition and understanding of the uniqueness of their lives.

EDUC 522. Schools, Cultures, and Communities II: Schools. 3 Credits.
Course focuses on schools and educational issues as they relate to practices and policies. Fulfills central ideas of the minor in education in consideration of the history and present conditions of schooling in a democratic society.

EDUC 523. Teaching Early Mathematics-Birth to Third Grade. 3 Credits.
Course is restricted to majors. Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Students study the teaching and learning of mathematics for young children, birth to third grade. Emphasis is placed on content for math, as well as materials, techniques, and teaching aids.

EDUC 524. Learning on the Edge: Theories of Experiential Education. 3 Credits.
This course examines experiential education in a variety of settings. Students will explore the role experiential education currently plays and suggest new roles in a chosen field of study.

EDUC 526. Ethics and Education: From Global Problems to Classroom Dilemmas. 3 Credits.
Among the topics examined are ethical implications of democratic schooling for a democratic society, educators as moral agents, and education as an institution with incumbent responsibilities. Students explore the explicit and implied ethics of education and schooling as they relate to policy makers, educators, and citizens concerned about social justice.

EDUC 527. Screen Education: Representations of Education in Popular Culture. 3 Credits.
Explore and analyze how education has been represented in popular culture. "Education" refers to teachers, students, principals, other educators, and the everyday processes of schooling, and "popular culture" refers to school films (fictional films), school documentaries, television shows, music videos and song lyrics, animation, and other media forms.

EDUC 528. Exceptionality Across the Life Span. 3 Credits.
This course provides methods for supporting exceptional individuals across the age span. Resources for supporting families, including parenting skills, from birth through adulthood will be described.

EDUC 529. Education in American Society. 3 Credits.
Explore history of American schools to inform students' understandings of contemporary schools. Examine policies, issues, and controversies through a chronological examination of schools and society.

EDUC 530. Free-Choice Learning in Informal Environments. 3 Credits.
On average, Americans spend less than five percent of their lives in traditional classrooms and an ever-growing body of evidence supports the importance and quality of the knowledge gained outside of school. Parks, museums, theaters, zoos, and aquariums are just a few of the vast resources available to the American public. These informal learning environments are designed to educate, inspire, and entertain visitors in approachable and engaging ways.

EDUC 531. Effective Teaching: First Steps. 2 Credits.
Characteristics of effective teachers, classroom management, instructional methods, instructional planning and presentation, monitoring and assessing student behavior and learning, differentiating instruction, yearly plans and pacing guides.

EDUC 532. Human Development and Learning. 3 Credits.
This course examines the field of human development as it contributes to the teaching and learning of all children and youth. The emphasis is on understanding the nature of development in family and educational contexts and the implications of research and theory on human development for teacher practice and human services and the creation of supportive learning environments for all children and youth.

EDUC 533. Social Justice in Education. 3 Credits.
Course examines how education can help create more fair and just societies, ultimately contributing to high performing educational systems internationally. Students explore multiple perspectives on social justice; examine efforts at local, state, national, and global levels; and learn to articulate efforts in classrooms and schools with wider community initiatives.

EDUC 534. Effective Teaching: Assessment. 2 Credits.
Methods of assessment, multiple measures, monitoring student performance to inform and improve instruction, understanding students with special needs with individual education plans, test scores, and other information in student files.

EDUC 535. Teachers and Schools. 3 Credits.
Leadership in classroom and school with families, standards of practice, advocating equity, supporting teaching profession, school organization, school finance, legal issue/education strategies for environments that promote learning, issues and trends.

EDUC 540. Mathematics Teaching. 2 Credits.
NCTM Standards, Standard Course of Study, developing student understanding of mathematics, problem-solving skills, and professional commitment.

EDUC 541. Mathematics Problems for Instruction. 2 Credits.
Mathematical tasks for learners in grades six through 12 and instructional methods necessary to maintain a task at a high cognitive level.

EDUC 542. Planning for Mathematics Instruction. 2 Credits.
Examining patterns of practice and assessment, modifying and improving planned units, pacing instruction, reconsidering individual differences and differentiation.

EDUC 543. Higher Education in the US. 3 Credits.
Does it matter what you learn in college? What is really going on when you join a fraternity or sorority? In this course we will examine the role of higher education in U.S. society and why it matters that you are enrolled here at all.

EDUC 546. Experiential Education in International Contexts. 3 Credits.
In this course, pre-service teachers and other students interested in education will explore international educational contexts (Hamburg, Germany or Quito, Ecuador/Galapagos Islands) through the lens of experiential education. In this study abroad experience, students will participate in formal and informal educational settings using Kolb's (1984) experiential learning cycle: experience, reflection, abstraction, application. This course is intended for anyone contemplating a career in education or any helping profession.

EDUC 550. Science Teaching. 2 Credits.
Nature of science, national science standards, teaching science as inquiry, safety in the science classroom, materials management.

EDUC 551. Designing Science Tasks. 2 Credits.
Developing and redesigning science instruction to engage students actively, with emphasis on classroom management for energetic curricula, modifying tasks and projects, assessment strategies, and utilization of resources.

EDUC 552. Improving Science Instruction. 2 Credits.
A practitioner's look at instruction in middle and high school science classrooms using many current pedagogical approaches of instruction: constructivism, models of inquiry, reflective practice, and conceptual change theory.

EDUC 555. Constructive Coaching I: Starting Out Right. 1 Credits.
Designed to support lateral entry candidates, solving the most urgent problems in the classroom. Includes frequent online communication, individualized attention to immediate problems and combines supervision, coaching, and mentoring.

EDUC 556. Constructive Coaching II: Effective Management of Student Behavior. 1 Credits.
Course designed to help lateral entry candidates by improving their classroom management skills, specifically those related to student behavior.

EDUC 557. Constructive Coaching III: Helping Students Learn. 3 Credits.
Course designed to support the lateral entry candidates through individualized feedback about concerns, focusing on strategies for increasing student learning using content area literacy strategies.

EDUC 560. Second Language Teaching. 2 Credits.
Methods of teaching a second language, how people learn foreign languages, planning instruction, getting students to communicate, using and adapting foreign language textbooks, and developing lessons.

EDUC 561. Designing Second Language Tasks. 2 Credits.
Students examine instruction as effective mechanism for classroom management, choosing and redesigning tasks and projects to engage students in active learning. Assessment of student understanding investigated as necessary for development of effective instruction.

EDUC 562. Improving Second Language Instruction. 2 Credits.
Students will consider national standards frameworks as organizing principles for instructional strategies. They will develop skills by use of culturally authentic materials, performance-based assessment, and units and lessons promoting successful language learning.

EDUC 563. Teaching Language Arts in the Middle Grades. 3 Credits.
Restricted to students admitted to the middle grades education program. Focuses on the goals and methods of teaching language arts in the middle grades, including planning for student diversity and unit planning.

EDUC 564. Teaching Social Studies in the Middle Grades. 3 Credits.
Restricted to students admitted to the middle grades education program. Focuses on the goals and methods of teaching social studies in the middle grades.

EDUC 565. Teaching Science in the Middle Grades. 3 Credits.
Restricted to students admitted to the middle grades education program. Focuses on methods for teaching science in the middle grades and includes emphasis on the individual needs of students, reading and writing in the content area, and unit planning.

EDUC 566. Teaching Math in the Middle Grades. 3 Credits.
Restricted to students admitted to the middle grades education program. Focuses on methods for teaching mathematics in the middle grades and includes emphasis on the individual needs of students, reading and writing in the content area, and unit planning.

EDUC 567. Children's Literature in Elementary and Middle Schools. 3 Credits.
Explores literature in the contexts of interdisciplinary elementary and middle school curricula and the interests and needs of children and young adolescents. Topics include reader-response theory, censorship, Internet resources, school resources, and methods.

EDUC 568. Seminar on Teaching. 3 Credits.
No description available.

EDUC 570. History of American Higher Education. 3 Credits.
Students in this class will be introduced to higher education in the United States. This course will focus on the development of colleges and universities and how their development helped shape and define current institutional practices and policies.

EDUC 571. The Maker Movement and Education. 3 Credits.
Education research shows that people learn better when they move, they work with their hands, they manipulate objects, and they design and make things. We've known this for years, but it's been very hard to design activities for children where they can move and make, and at the same time learn the required course material. But today that's changed, thanks to exciting new technologies that bring learning and making together.

EDUC 572. Psychology of Creativity. 3 Credits.
How do people create? How do people learn to be creative? This class will introduce you to the latest scientific understandings of how creativity works. You'll actively engage in the creative process, in four different domains, such as creative writing and music production. We'll connect these experiences to the latest science of how creativity works, in psychology and in other disciplines.

EDUC 573. Reading the World: Paulo Freire, Local History, and Public Pedagogy. 3 Credits.
This course is a thought experiment examining current and historical controversies in the areas within which we live. Using the lens of Public Pedagogy defined as the pedagogy in which all humans are immersed in which is not without politics and message. The world as constructed as created by humans is charged with messages subtle and overt that shape our experience and point of view.

EDUC 574. Representations of Education in Documentaries. 3 Credits.
Representations of teachers, students, and schooling appear in many popular media forms, including films, television shows, animation, popular songs, music videos, TV news and commercials, young adult fiction, and more. Alongside the subgenre of "school films" there exists another vibrant and robust cinematic subgenre composed of documentaries about "Education" (writ large). This course is an introduction to and exploration of these documentaries about education.

EDUC 575. Nurturing Latinx Identity Formation. 3 Credits.
Through engagement, students will critically reflect on challenges and opportunities within schools and communities to transform these spaces positively. The course's central focus is learning how to re-imagine and redesign inclusive learning environments that uplift and advocate for positive racial/ethnic identity development of Southern Latinx youth. This course will utilize theories and frameworks to help students contextualize the experiences of Latinx communities in education while acquiring high impact practices to serve Latinx youth effectively.

EDUC 576. LatinxEd Internship. 3 Credits.
This course is primarily built upon weekly service learning, as students receive hands-on and behind-the-scenes experience in serving LatinxEd and its youth-serving initiatives and programs. Service-learning is coupled with weekly university course where students will collectively reflect on their experience in educational settings in and out of the classroom and receive mentorship from LatinxEd staff/partners. Students will demonstrate skills learned in EDUC 575.

EDUC 583. Career and Professional Development. 3 Credits.
The primary goal of this course is to provide an integrative learning experience that prepares HDFS students to apply academic learning, ethical and family life education principles acquired in previous coursework to real-life situations likely to be encountered in the internship experience and throughout their careers in the field of family studies and human services. Course materials and learning experiences are intended to help students with obtaining an internship consistent with their career goals.

EDUC 585. Activating Human and Organizational Leadership Development. 3 Credits.
This course provides an integrative learning experience that prepares students to apply academic learning acquired in previous coursework to real-life situations likely to be encountered in the internship experience and throughout their careers. The project-based approach is intended to culminate learning about human development and organizational theory and provide an opportunity to practice and prepare for their capstone experience. Majors only.

EDUC 590. Special Topics in Education. 1-3 Credits.
This course provides students the opportunity for intensive exploration and discussion of selected topics in education.

EDUC 591. Seminar in Academic Mentoring in Education. 1 Credits.
The education seminar in education provides direct experience in facilitating learning in undergraduate courses in education, human development, and organizational leadership. Students will serve as undergraduate learning assistants as part of the experiential activity of the course. Juniors and seniors only.

EDUC 593. Internship/Student Teaching. 1-12 Credits.
Internships are full-time, authentic, field-based experiences in an educational or professional setting. Preservice teachers are responsible for planning lessons, delivering instruction, assessing students, managing the classroom, and demonstrating their teaching effectiveness. All internships are devoted exclusively to the student's functioning in a professional capacity.

EDUC 595. Introduction to Exceptional Children. 3 Credits.
Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Surveys giftedness and mental disabilities, emotional and behavioral disorders, learning disabilities, speech, hearing, vision, and physical impairments. Emphasizes the role of professionals, families, and the community in supporting the whole child.

EDUC 601. Education Workshops. 1-3 Credits.
Permission of the program director. Workshops designed around education topics primarily for licensed K-12 teachers.

EDUC 605. Family Systems and Policy. 3 Credits.
This course will explore the systemic nature of families, both internally and externally. The first half of the course will focus on the family itself as a natural system, one that governs boundaries and structure and facilitates interactions in reciprocal and patterned ways. The second half of the course will focus on the sociopolitical systems within which families live, specifically, public policies that influence how families define themselves and gain access to resources. Juniors/Seniors only. Majors only.

EDUC 611. Black Families in Social and Contemporary Contexts. 3 Credits.
This course examines the diversity of Black families in the United States with a focus on the intersection of race, class, gender. The course examines theoretical and practical knowledge needed to develop and promote and maintain healthy Black families and identities. The course considers how historical trauma, slavery, the social construction of race, Blackness, political, and economic factors impact the well-being of Black children, youth, and adults within relationships, families, and social institutions.

EDUC 614. Innovative and Engaging Teaching. 3 Credits.
Introduction to the teaching profession including a focused, program-long emphasis on innovative, authentic, and resource-informed teaching. Includes engagement with 21st-century learning skills.

EDUC 615. Schools and Community Collaboration. 3 Credits.
Course explores the symbiotic relationship between schools, families, and communities through a historical and sociocultural lens. Students participate in a community-based field experience.

EDUC 616. Teaching Early English Language Arts. 3 Credits.
Course focuses on ELA pedagogy, grades kindergarten through second grade. Course emphasizes best practices in foundations of reading and writing, cross-disciplinary concepts, and meaningful inquiry-based learning experiences.

EDUC 617. Teaching in the Middle School. 3 Credits.
Provides students with an introduction to the history, philosophy, and attributes of schools and curriculum specifically designed for young adolescents with attention to their developmental characteristics and needs as learners.

EDUC 626. Pedagogical English Grammar for ESL Teachers. 3 Credits.
Enhances foreign and second language educators' understanding of English grammar, expands their skills in linguistic analysis, and helps them develop a more pedagogically sound approach to the teaching of English grammar.

EDUC 627. Pedagogical Linguistics for ESL Teachers. 3 Credits.
Provides future English as a second language teachers with advanced concepts in linguistics and comparative linguistics. Topics such as phonology and morphology will be covered.

EDUC 628. Teaching English Language Learners. 3 Credits.
Provides an introduction to second language acquisition and considerations for the educational experiences of emergent bilingual/multilingual students in the context of U.S. schools.

EDUC 629. Language Minority Students: Issues for Practitioners. 3 Credits.
Permission of the instructor. Explores issues of culture and language associated with teaching English as a second language.

EDUC 630. Advanced Research Design and Methods in Human Development and Family Studies. 3 Credits.
This course covers advanced research designs and methodologies that are common in contemporary research on human development and family studies. It is designed to follow the introductory course in research methods and provides a more immersive learning experience into research design and methods. As such, it is appropriate for advanced undergraduate students as well as graduate students with limited exposure to advanced research.

EDUC 672. UNC Teaching Fellows: Community of Learners. 1 Credits.
This course is required during both fall and spring semesters for all UNC students currently receiving funding through the North Carolina Teaching Fellows Program. The course will focus on addressing NC Teaching Fellows Commission-mandated enhancements in areas of leadership, diverse learners, classroom management, and assessment. Fellows will reflect on experiences and knowledge gained through readings, discussions, and community engagement. Previously offered as EDUC 872.

EDUC 685. Teaching Mathematics in the Elementary Grades. 3 Credits.
This course emphasizes the interconnection of a classroom/school and society, the role of cultural beliefs in education, and mathematics instruction.

EDUC 686. Teaching Science in the Elementary Grades. 3 Credits.
This course emphasizes the interconnection of classroom/school and society, the role of cultural beliefs in education, and science instruction.

EDUC 687. Teaching Social Studies in the Elementary Grades. 3 Credits.
This course emphasizes the interconnection of classroom/school and society, the role of cultural beliefs in education, and social studies instruction.

EDUC 688. Teaching Intermediate English Language Arts, Grades 3-6. 3 Credits.
This course emphasizes the interconnection of classroom/school and society, the role of cultural beliefs in education, and English language arts instruction.

EDUC 689. Foundations of Special Education. 3 Credits.
This course provides an advanced introduction to key concepts, issues, and service delivery approaches pertaining to the educational needs of students with high incidence disabilities.

EDUC 691H. Honors Seminar in Education. 3 Credits.
Restricted to honors candidates in the School of Education. Required for graduation with honors in education. Integration of critical analysis of selected educational themes, introduction to methods of educational research, and intensive work in skills of reading critically and writing.

EDUC 694H. Honors Thesis in Education. 3 Credits.
Required of all candidates for graduation with honors in education. Preparation of an honors thesis under the direction of a member of the School of Education faculty and an oral examination on the thesis.

EDUC 695. Human and Organizational Leadership Development Capstone. 9 Credits.
This course provides an integrative learning experience in which HOLD students apply academic learning acquired in previous coursework to real-life situations encountered in the field. The internship serves as the capstone of the HOLD major, requiring senior students to demonstrate mastery of the skills learned in the HOLD major. Students are required to complete a Human Organizational Leadership and Development project that will be shared in both written format and an oral presentation. Restricted to Majors only.

EDUC 697. Education Minor Capstone Course. 3 Credits.
Student completes a major project in education. Course involves discussion about the changing and contested goals of education, how student projects are implicated in these complexities, and how the projects may be articulated in terms of policy change.

EDUC 698. Internship in Human Development and Family Science. 3-9 Credits.
The primary goal of this course is to provide an integrative learning experience in which HDFS students apply academic learning acquired in previous coursework to real-life situations encountered in the field. The internship serves as the capstone of the HDFS major, requiring senior students to demonstrate mastery of skills learned in the HDFS major. Students are also required to complete a Leadership/Family Life Education project for the internship site shared both in written format-and-oral presentation.

EDUC 699. Teaching the Science of Literacy. 3 Credits.
The course examines the science of literacy and how children learn to read and write. The course will emphasize evidence-based practices in foundations of reading and writing, based on the literature of the science of reading. Using the multi-tiered system of support (MTSS) framework, students will learn how to target literacy to meet individual needs based on formative and summative assessments. Students will learn to link progress monitoring to EBPs for tracking responsiveness to instruction.

EDUC 701. Practica Student Internship. 1-12 Credits.
Provides students the opportunity to observe and become involved with all aspects of teaching and schools within their content area. Previously offered as EDUC 693.

EDUC 702. Introduction to Strengths-Based School Counseling. 3 Credits.
Introduction to the counseling profession and ethical codes. Primary focus on the history and ethical practice of school counseling, specifically the Strengths-Based School Counseling framework.

EDUC 703. Theories and Techniques of Counseling. 3 Credits.
School Counseling students only. Explores theories and theory-based techniques of counseling, with emphasis on theory as a means of conceptualizing behavior change in the counseling process.

EDUC 704. Promoting Career Development. 3 Credits.
Master of Education in School Counseling majors only. Course examines theories and models of career development, school transitions, college access/college admissions counseling, and educational policy. Students will utilize action plans that include assessment tools, information sources, and technology for diverse K-12 school communities.

EDUC 705. Internship in School Counseling and Consultation. 3-9 Credits.
Places students in counseling and consultation under supervision in a school setting in order to develop competencies in individual counseling, group counseling, and consultation. May be repeated for credit for a maximum of 12 credit hours.

EDUC 706. Collaboration and Leadership in School Counseling. 3 Credits.
Students are required to have taken 18 hours in counseling courses. Emphasizes the collaboration and leadership skills needed to effectively organize and implement a comprehensive school counseling program.

EDUC 707. Promoting Cultural Competence and Social Justice in School Counseling. 3-6 Credits.
Permission of the instructor. Explores the cognitive and affective considerations of counseling in culturally different social systems. This includes ways to incorporate specific sociocultural dimensions into the counseling process.

EDUC 708. School Consultation Methods. 3-12 Credits.
Examines various models of consultation and the role of the consultative model in the schools and related agencies; uses role playing and experience in the school. May be repeated for credit.

EDUC 709. Seminar in Applied Investigations. 3 Credits.
Permission of the instructor. Provides opportunities to expand understanding of research in education, psychology, counseling, and school psychology.

EDUC 710. Introductory Statistical Methods. 3 Credits.
Introduction to descriptive and inferential statistics applicable to the design and analysis of research in the social, behavioral, and health sciences. Topics include descriptive statistics, hypothesis testing, statistical power, confidence intervals, ANOVA, and multiple regression. Students use statistical software (R) to conduct analyses, with examples drawn largely from education and human development.

EDUC 711. Promoting Academic Development. 3 Credits.
The course addresses the school counselor's role in promoting student academic development. Interventions for impacting academic achievement at both the individual and systems level are explored.

EDUC 712. Prepracticum in School Counseling. 3 Credits.
School counseling graduate students only. Develops basic strengths-based counseling and interviewing techniques at specified levels of mastery through role playing, feedback sessions, and other experiential counseling activities to enhance counselor competence.

EDUC 713. Tests and Measurements. 3 Credits.
Studies basic concepts in measurement and their application in the use and interpretation of tests. The student may be required to purchase tests.

EDUC 714. Group Counseling and Guidance. 3 Credits.
Permission of the instructor. Applies counseling theory and research to the organization and implementation of group work (e.g., guidance, task, psychoeducational, counseling groups) in schools.

EDUC 715. Girlhood, Culture, and Curriculum. 3 Credits.
Who is a girl? How do the intersections of race, class, gender, sexuality, disability, citizenship status, and other such markers of difference influence what is known and knowable about girl(hood)s? What are the temporal spaces of girlhood? How does the idea of girlhood travel across times and geographies (i.e., places and spaces)? How does school function as an apparatus for the socialization, acculturation, and disciplining of girl(hood)s? What are the cultural and curricular constructions.

EDUC 716. Technology across the Curriculum. 3 Credits.
Explores the field of educational technologies, situating the field within the context of historical and theoretical foundations, current practices, and future directions.

EDUC 717. Theory and Research in Education Technology. 3 Credits.
This course is based on the review and critique of research and theoretical literature in the field of education technology. Students will conduct critical analyses of theory, research, and methodology in the field of education technology and design a proposed education technology research study.

EDUC 718. Psychological Assessment and Intervention I. 3 Credits.
Permission of the instructor. Addresses knowledge and skills in techniques of observation, interviewing, assessment of environment, intelligence, achievement, perceptual motor skills, and interpersonal perceptions. May be repeated for credit.

EDUC 719. Psychological Advanced Assessment and Intervention II. 3 Credits.
Permission of the instructor. Addresses knowledge and skills in techniques of observation, interviewing, assessment of environment, intelligence, achievement, perceptual motor skills, and interpersonal perceptions.

EDUC 720. Seminar in Professional School Psychology. 2-3 Credits.
Deals with the goals and roles of school psychology, ethical concerns, privileged information, certification and licensing, and other relevant areas. May be repeated for credit.

EDUC 721. Externship in School Psychology. 3 Credits.
Permission of the instructor. Provides supervised observation and participation in school psychological services in schools and school-related field facilities. May be repeated for credit.

EDUC 722. Master's Internship in School Psychology. 1-6 Credits.
Provides supervised full-time field experience for master's students in school psychology in a school setting.

EDUC 723. Advanced Assessment and Intervention Approaches for Students with Traumatic Brain Injury. 3 Credits.
Assessment and treatment of students who have sustained traumatic brain injury; for school and clinical psychologists.

EDUC 724. Parent and Community Engagement for the School Executive. 3 Credits.
Focus on the environmental context of family and community engagement. Research-based best practices applied to an identified local school site, where analyses of school/district initiatives, policies, and practices are examined through a social justice lens. Review federal/state legislation and compliance to ensure the rights of parents and guardians.

EDUC 725. Supervisory Practice for the School Executive. 3 Credits.
Admission to the master of school administration program required. Focuses on the role of school administrators in facilitating the continuous improvement of the clinical supervision process and on a variety of observation and conferencing skills that school leaders may employ with teachers and other support staff.

EDUC 726. Capstone Preparation. 1 Credits.
Students will identify and define a problem that exists and its impacts on specific populations. Students will design a response to that problem in the form of a venture that is feasible, desirable, and scalable venture. Students will then use design thinking principles to develop a venture plan and prototype. Permission of the instructor.

EDUC 727. The Social Context of Educational Leadership. 3 Credits.
Provides retrospective, contemporary, and prospective examinations of the social, cultural, political, and philosophical contexts from which the current issues that affect schools and schooling have evolved.

EDUC 728. Practicum in ESL II/Foreign Languages. 3 Credits.
Provides an internship to teach ESL/FL under the supervision of an experienced ESL teacher.

EDUC 729. Culture and Politics in Second Language Education. 3 Credits.
This course provides an overview of current issues in second language teaching (ESL, foreign languages, and bilingual education) with a focus on culture, politics, and diversity.

EDUC 730. Curriculum Leadership for the School Executive. 3 Credits.
Applies curriculum skills required of school executives today, including the development of an alternative school schedule with a different curricular focus; analysis of test data to discern achievement trends; test item deconstruction; instructional mapping; and the creation of a group-based curriculum management plan for a specific elementary or secondary school.

EDUC 731. Organizational Management for the School Executive. 3 Credits.
This course provides pre-service school executives with a skill set and practical experiences that address effective organizational management behaviors. Topics include time management, budget and resource allocation, use of data to assess decisions and initiatives, implementation of appropriate rules and procedures, and open communication with all stakeholders.

EDUC 732. Group Dynamics for the School Executive. 3 Credits.
Experiential course that focuses on the development of an understanding and skills for working with various organizational groups. Focus is on teams, leadership of teams, team problem solving, and team decision making.

EDUC 733. Advanced ESL Methods and Strategies for Humanities. 3 Credits.
This course will prepare teacher candidates for teaching emergent bilingual students at the elementary and secondary level. This course builds upon skills and methods introduced in EDUC 628 with a focus on language arts and social studies content.

EDUC 734. Planning in Educational Organizations. 3 Credits.
Examines a conceptual and practical approach to planning in educational organizations. Includes a focus on environmental scanning, futures research, and strategic planning.

EDUC 735. Seminar on Internship I. 3 Credits.
Students examine a variety of issues that arise during their internship. Heavy emphasis on the creation of required artifacts needed for both program completion and State licensure.

EDUC 736. Seminar and Supervised Internship in Educational Administration I. 3-6 Credits.
Provides supervised internship in school administration to facilitate the student's progress toward certification in the principalship. May be repeated for credit.

EDUC 737. Seminar on Internship II. 3 Credits.
In addition to dealing with a variety of issues that candidates are dealing with in their internships, there is a heavy emphasis on creation of required artifacts needed for both program completion and State Licensure.

EDUC 738. Seminar and Supervised Internship in Educational Administration II. 3-6 Credits.
Required preparation, six semester hours in educational administration, including EDUC 834. Permission of the instructor. Provides supervised internship in school administration to facilitate the student's progress toward certification in the principalship. May be repeated for credit.

EDUC 739. Global Child: Development and Education. 3 Credits.
Examines issues, policies, and practices related to children's development and education in a global context. Universal documents and declarations will serve as frameworks for review of the status of children's education and well-being globally.

EDUC 740. Cultural Leadership for the School Executive. 3 Credits.
Course focuses on the importance of school executives' understanding the organizational culture of their schools and then exerting symbolic leadership strategies to reshape that culture so it is more conducive to promoting the academic achievement of students.

EDUC 741. School Inquiry and Reform for the School Executive. 3 Credits.
Course focuses on the use of various types of data that can be used to impact decisions regarding school improvement and increased student achievement. It also introduces a number of proven strategies and tactics for improving schools.

EDUC 742. Law for the School Executive. 3 Credits.
Course focuses on the basic legal principles that school executives need to know and follow in their day-to-day leadership activities.

EDUC 743. Teaching Secondary Students with Disabilities. 1 Credits.
Following a case format and utilizing online instruction, M.A.T. students learn to teach secondary learners in inclusion settings.

EDUC 744. Assessment Techniques for ESL/EC Teachers. 3 Credits.
Covers the knowledge and abilities necessary to create and interpret assessments of academic progress, engagement, and motivation. Emphasis on (a) technology and (b) assessments for ESL and special needs students.

EDUC 745. Contexts of Education II. 2 Credits.
Provides a weekly seminar (part two of a two-semester sequence) for interns with full-time teaching responsibilities. Interns will connect their teaching experience to social, cultural, and philosophical issues in education.

EDUC 746. Practica Student Internship. 9 Credits.
Permission of the instructor. Provides full-time internship in teaching in the content area under the supervision of experienced teachers and a university supervisor for the semester.

EDUC 747. Methods and Materials for Teaching Secondary/K-12 Subjects II. 3 Credits.
Teaches student teachers to be aware of trends and issues in their content area in North Carolina and the nation, therefore improving their understanding and skills in curriculum development and instruction.

EDUC 748. Advanced Leadership. 3 Credits.
Course restricted to graduate students in the M.A.T. program. The course will provide a foundation for advanced students to consider what it means to participate in schools as educational leaders. This course builds on experience gained from the student teaching internship and is one-half of the capstone module of the MAT program of study.

EDUC 749. Advanced Exploration of Families, Schools and Communities. 3 Credits.
Admission into the M.A.T. program required. This advanced course examines strategies for effective communication and collaboration with families, professional team members, and school resources. Topics will include a return to contextual issues and reflection on initial preparation experiences. This course is one-half of the capstone module of the MAT program of study.

EDUC 750. Empowerment Strategies for the School Executive. 3 Credits.
Course focuses on the factors that hinder both school executives and their teachers from feeling empowered to fulfill their leadership potential and examines a variety of strategies for overcoming those challenges.

EDUC 751. Introduction to Teaching Diverse Learners. 3 Credits.
Admission to the M.A.T. program required. Introduces the principles of effective teaching with emphasis on the first year of teaching.

EDUC 752. College Access and College Admissions Counseling. 3 Credits.
Examines college access/college admissions counseling. Students will utilize action plans that include assessment tools, information sources, and technology to promote college readiness for diverse K-12 school communities.

EDUC 753. Introduction to Curriculum. 3 Credits.
Open to graduate students in education or permission of the instructor. Surveys the nature of curriculum development and contemporary changes as they relate to social aims, learner characteristics, and social problems.

EDUC 754. Teaching, Teachers and Teacher Education. 3 Credits.
In this course, students will examine seminal literature related to teachers, teaching and teacher education in the United States. We will focus on examining the who, what, where, how and why of PK-12 teachers, teaching and teacher education, exploring this through both historical and contemporary lenses.

EDUC 755. Classroom Assessment. 3 Credits.
Course restricted to graduate students in the M.A.T. program. Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. This course provides prospective secondary teachers with a conceptual understanding of assessment to promote all students' school achievement and adjustment in the 21st century.

EDUC 756. Principles and Methods in Parent Education and Involvement. 3 Credits.
Examines principles, theory, models, and methods for work with parents and families in educational settings, with relevant research and practical applications.

EDUC 757. College Teaching. 3 Credits.
Introduces students to the planning of courses and educational programs for college students. Emphasis is on a systematic approach to developing, implementing, and evaluating instruction. This course is intended for graduate students in any academic department who plan teaching careers.

EDUC 758. Immigration and Education. 3 Credits.
Investigates social (including political, economic, legal, and demographic) and cultural impacts on immigration and education.

EDUC 759. Teacher Leadership for a Diverse Society. 3 Credits.
Course restricted to graduate students in the M.A.T. program. Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. For educational institutions to be effective in a diverse society, teachers must take on key leadership roles. This course helps prepare future teachers for such leadership.

EDUC 760. Methods and Materials for Teaching Secondary/K-12 Subjects I. 3 Credits.
Prepares students to teach discipline-area material at the secondary level. The immediate purpose of this course is to prepare participants for full-time student teaching during the spring semester.

EDUC 761. Design of Emerging Technologies for Education. 3 Credits.
This course is designed for students in the MA in educational innovation, technology and entrepreneurship (MEITE) program. The course will introduce a studio-based approach to the design of emerging technologies for education in formal and informal learning environments to help MEITE students build and test prototypes to support their MA projects.

EDUC 762. Child Development and Disability. 3 Credits.
Emphasizes typical development and developmental deviation exhibited by children in cognitive, language, social, and affective areas.

EDUC 763. Biological Bases of Children's Development. 3 Credits.
Focuses on the theory and research related to the biomedical and psychological aspects of exceptionality.

EDUC 764. Current Issues in Literacy. 3 Credits.
The main purpose of this seminar is to engage students in the synthesis and critical examination of current research and policy issues in literacy education.

EDUC 765. Global Child: Development and Education. 3 Credits.
Course examines contemporary issues, policies, and practices related to children's development and education in a global context. Universal documents and declarations like the U.N. Convention on the Rights of the Child, Education for All, and the Millennium Goals will serve as frameworks for review of the status of children's education and well-being globally.

EDUC 766. Practicum in School Counseling. 1-9 Credits.
Develops individual counseling skills and an understanding of the school as a setting for counseling through an apprenticeship experience.

EDUC 767. Educational Innovation and Technology, Integrative Seminar I. 3 Credits.
First of two part course to guide students in integrating all of their program experiences. This is an intensive discussion seminar, largely constructed around the contributions and concerns of the students.

EDUC 768. Education in Latin America. 3 Credits.
Exploration of the relationship between national development and education. The process through which groups form their cultural and social identities. Theoretical perspectives drawn from development studies, globalization and comparative education.

EDUC 769. Schooling of Latinos. 3 Credits.
Exploration of racial/ethnic differences in educational achievement and persistence in school including language and schooling and the interplay of race, gender, and class.

EDUC 770. Multicultural Ways of Knowing. 3 Credits.
Dialectically explores narratives about race, class, and gender through critical, multicultural, aesthetic, and postmodern lenses.

EDUC 771. Seminar in Social Foundations of Education. 1 Credits.
Explores topics in the social and philosophical context of American public education.

EDUC 772. Educational Sociology. 3 Credits.
Applies sociological theory and research to problems of concern to educators.

EDUC 773. Social Change and Education. 3 Credits.
Analyzes social change within a theoretical framework and describes its probable impact on education. Considers the role of the school in the development of human capital.

EDUC 774. Social and Educational History of the United States. 3 Credits.
Provides a survey of the social forces influencing the development of American education from the period of colonization to the early years of the 20th century.

EDUC 775. Introduction to Ethics and Education. 3 Credits.
Identifies issues arising in the professional activities of education personnel in the context of systematic consideration of the nature of ethical choice.

EDUC 776. Gender, Race, and Class Issues in Education. 3 Credits.
Provides an understanding of (and remedies for) the racism, sexism, and class divisions that schools can perpetuate. Examines curriculum, counseling, and interaction in classrooms; structure and leadership; and fundamental assumptions.

EDUC 777. Gender, Policy, and Leadership in Education. 3 Credits.
Covers feminist critiques of organizational and political power structures in readings and discussions leading to group and individual research projects.

EDUC 778. Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages. 3-6 Credits.
TESOL program aimed to prepare future teachers to lead their own English Language Learning classroom. Part 1: pedagogy, independent learning & lesson planning. Part 2: lesson & course planning & practice. 4 skills: listening, speaking, reading & writing.

EDUC 779. Contemporary Philosophies of Democratic Schooling. 3 Credits.
Provides a comparative study of current philosophies of education, with particular attention to their impact on solutions offered to problems currently recognized in American education.

EDUC 780. Grammar & Applied Linguistics for ESL Teachers. 3 Credits.
This online course will help prepare teachers and teacher candidates for teaching emergent bilingual students at the elementary and secondary level. This course will provide teachers fundamental knowledge and practice of technical English grammar, phonology, morphology, phonetics, syntax and semantics. Participants will also look at the socio-cultural aspects of linguistics and how it is connected to identity and a sense of "place".

EDUC 781. Theories and Research in Human Development. 3 Credits.
Permission of the instructor. Covers the basic theories and the research bases for instructional decisions. This is an advanced-level course in human development.

EDUC 782. Psychology of Learning in the School. 3 Credits.
Studies learning in the school setting, with emphasis on fundamental concepts, issues, and evaluation of materials and experiences.

EDUC 783. Advanced ESL Methods and Strategies for STEM. 3 Credits.
This course will prepare teacher candidates for teaching Science and Mathematics and STEM content to emergent bilingual students at the elementary and secondary level. Specifically, it will focus on challenges emergent bilingual students may face when learning science and math in U.S. K-12 classrooms due to the language in which and the worldview from which the content is being taught.

EDUC 784. Intermediate Statistical Methods. 3 Credits.
The second course in statistics for the behavioral, social, and health sciences. Building from a review of statistical inference and power analysis in simple linear regression, we work through standard topics in multiple linear regression, leading to specialized topics including logistic regression, fixed effects, and longitudinal / panel data.

EDUC 785. Program Evaluation in Education. 3 Credits.
An examination of major approaches to program evaluation with emphasis on differences between evaluation and research.

EDUC 786. Problems in Educational Psychology. 3-6 Credits.
Permission of the instructor. Study and development of original investigations in the area of educational psychology.

EDUC 787. Problems in Educational Measurement. 3 Credits.
Provides an opportunity for advanced doctoral students to study a particular problem area in educational measurement under the supervision of a faculty mentor. May be repeated for credit.

EDUC 788. Instructional Theories. 3 Credits.
Examines the nature and application of various theories of instruction to instructional goals, individual differences, teaching strategies, sequencing, motivation, and assessment.

EDUC 789. Educational Innovation and Technology, Integrative Seminar II. 3 Credits.
Second of two-part course to guide students in integrating all of their program experiences. This is an intensive discussion seminar, largely constructed around the contributions and concerns of the students.

EDUC 790. Special Topics in Education - Graduate. 3 Credits.
This course provides graduate students the opportunity for intensive exploration and discussion of selected topics in education.

EDUC 791. Providing Specially Designed Instruction. 3 Credits.
This course includes instruction in developing and implementing Tier 3 interventions and providing specially designed instruction to meet the needs of students with Individualized Education Programs (IEPs). The course builds on information presented in methods classes. In this course, students further learn to plan for and provide more intensive interventions based on data provided through multiple forms of assessment. Admission to the MAT sequence for special education required.

EDUC 792. Research on Technology. 3 Credits.
Explores and discusses the application of emerging technologies in education.

EDUC 793. High-Leveraged Practices in Special Education with a Focus on Literacy Instruction. 3 Credits.
The course examines characteristics of students with mild-to-moderate disabilities in the area of literacy. The primary focus is on determining instructional literacy needs for students with disabilities as well as those receiving Tier 2 and 3 interventions through a multi-tiered system of support (MTSS) framework. The course covers how to target literacy instruction to meet individual needs based on formative assessments paired to high-leveraged and evidence-based practices. Admission to the MAT sequence required to enroll.

EDUC 794. High-Leveraged Practices in Special Education with a Focus on Mathematics Instruction. 3 Credits.
The course examines specific characteristics of students with mild-to-moderate disabilities in the area of mathematics. The primary focus is on determining instructional mathematics needs for students with disabilities as well as those receiving Tier 2 and 3 interventions through a multi-tiered system of support (MTSS). The course covers how to target mathematics instruction to meet individual needs based on formative assessments paired to high-leveraged and evidence-based practices. Admission to the MAT sequence required.

EDUC 795. Learning Analytics. 3 Credits.
Students will receive an introduction to learning and learning analytics. Through assignments involving learning by teaching, product evaluations, research reporting, and proposal/design projects, students will learn about various theoretical frameworks, digital learning platforms, and research and evaluation approaches, relevant to the study and production of learning analytics solutions. This is an interdisciplinary course; learning analytics rests at the intersection of learning theory, educational technology, computer and information sciences, and artificial intelligence.

EDUC 796B. Independent Study Doctoral Level. 1-12 Credits.
Independent study at the doctoral level.

EDUC 796A. Independent Study Master's Level. 1-12 Credits.
Permission of the instructor.

EDUC 797. Collaboration with Families and Other Professionals. 3 Credits.
Instructs students about the resources available to them, their students, and their students' families. Students will develop skills in working with parents and professionals as partners in the instruction and planning of programs for students with learning disabilities.

EDUC 798. Master's Internship in Learning Disabilities Education. 1-12 Credits.
Provides supervised experience in a phase of special education or literacy studies appropriate to the student's qualifications and future educational goals. May require a minimum of 300 clock hours at the internship site per semester depending on student placement. See your advisor for credit hours needed.

EDUC 800. Diversity in Education. 3 Credits.
Restricted to graduate students in the M.A.T. program. Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Along with providing overview of schools, their structure, and their role in American society, the course introduces students to the necessity of differentiated instruction based on race, culture, special education, and English as second language learners.

EDUC 801. Advanced Seminar in Sociocultural Diversity Studies. 3 Credits.
This course provides an in-depth, critical review and analysis of a current topic pertinent to sociocultural diversity in human development. Each offering of this course will focus on a specific domain to be determined by the course instructor in collaboration with the Applied Developmental Science and Special Education program faculty. Potential topics for this course include: The Development of Black, Indigenous, and Persons of Color in America; The Health and Well-Being of LGBTQ+Youth.

EDUC 802. Foundations of Educational Research. 3 Credits.
Applies the philosophies of science, social science, language, and history (including recent theoretical issues) to the understanding of how educational research is conducted and what contribution it makes.

EDUC 803. Proseminar in Education. 3 Credits.
Students develop an in-depth understanding of scholarly traditions within education, histories of curricular area and current issues facing these areas and education as a whole, and application of these histories and issues to classrooms and schools.

EDUC 804. Seminar in Culture, Curriculum, and Change. 3 Credits.
Open to doctoral students only. Critical examination of topics and policy issues related to curriculum and educational change, considered in cultural context.

EDUC 805A. Professional Seminar I. 3 Credits.
Introductory seminar for graduate students. Review current issues in early childhood, special education, and literacy and introduces students to the research of current faculty members.

EDUC 805B. Professional Seminar II: Research and Scholarship in the Educational Sciences. 3 Credits.
Course explores history of psychological studies in education and examines areas of current inquiry such as cognition and learning, teaching and instruction, academic motivation, contextual influences, and theory-based intervention.

EDUC 806. Seminar in Applied Developmental Sciences and Special Education. 3 Credits.
Open to doctoral students only. Critical examination of theoretical and research issues related to learning, development, teaching, assessment, and quantitative methods of research, from a psychological perspective.

EDUC 807. Social Studies and Arts. 1-9 Credits.
Looks at social studies as a discipline that easily integrates other disciplines, particularly the arts, which includes literature. It emphasizes curriculum and instruction, as well as theoretical underpinnings.

EDUC 808. Foundations of Clinical Mental Health Counseling. 3 Credits.
An overview of the history of community mental health counseling and current topics impacting the profession. The emerging identity of the clinical mental health counselor is explored in terms of theoretical influences, diverse roles and tasks of counselors within various community settings, and professional ethics. There will be an emphasis on multicultural and social justice perspectives shaping the field of clinical mental health counseling with regards to best practice, research, and program development.

EDUC 809. Problems in Special Education. 3 Credits.
Permission of the instructor. Provides an opportunity for post-master's students who wish to engage in supervised field and pilot research. May be repeated for credit.

EDUC 810. Psychology of Career Development. 3 Credits.
Open to doctoral students only. Reviews theories and research in the psychology of career development and counseling. Emphasis is on theory and implications for practice.

EDUC 811. Problems in School Counseling. 1-21 Credits.
Provides students the opportunity for directed study in school counseling.

EDUC 812. Doctoral Practicum in School Counseling. 1-21 Credits.
Provides students experiences that may include working with individual, family, or group counseling and consultation.

EDUC 813. Doctoral Internship in School Counseling. 1 Credits.
Provides students a supervised professional predoctoral internship training experience in counseling.

EDUC 814. Supervision and Teaching in School Counseling. 3 Credits.
Enables students to gain supervision and teaching skills that will enhance their functions as professors and as leaders in counseling agencies. Strategies of practicum supervision are summarized and research literature is reviewed.

EDUC 815. Doctoral Seminar in School Counseling. 3 Credits.
Provides an in-depth appraisal of topics of theoretical and/or clinical nature that are of particular relevance to the field.

EDUC 816. Transformational Education. 3 Credits.
Examines 20th-century schools that have attempted to redefine and deepen United States democracy, embracing pedagogies and values that offer alternatives to mainstream education.

EDUC 817. Introduction to Educational Research. 3 Credits.
Course provides introduction to purposes of educational research, roles of theories, hypotheses, questions, and ethical issues. While being exposed to a range of research designs, students are to become critical reviewers and develop research proposals or a master's thesis.

EDUC 818. School Psychology Intervention and Assessment III. 3 Credits.
We will develop knowledge and skills that relate to the implementation of evidenced-based interventions. This innovation implementation course is based on Forman (2009).

EDUC 819. School Psychology Intervention and Assessment IV. 3 Credits.
This project-based course focuses on utilizing the fields of intervention research and social entrepreneurship to design a novel educational innovation.

EDUC 820. Doctoral Seminar in Professional School Psychology. 3 Credits.
Required preparation, appropriate courses. Permission of the instructor. Considers advanced topics in the field of school psychology such as professional issues, standards and ethics, and interdisciplinary relations.

EDUC 821. Doctoral Externship in School Psychology. 1-3 Credits.
Permission of the instructor. Supervised field placement experiences for doctoral-level students in school psychology, integrating training with field responsibilities at a systems level in schools and school-related settings.

EDUC 822. Doctoral Internship in School Psychology. 1-6 Credits.
Supervised doctoral internship in school psychology for advanced training in professional skills and research in schools and school-related settings.

EDUC 823. Policy Development in Education. 3 Credits.
Graduate course about the political process and policy dynamics. With a focus on the U.S. domestic context, the course addresses the policy process in general and examines the workings of that process in education.

EDUC 824. Fundamentals of Educational Research. 3 Credits.
Explores and analyzes the range of educational research designs including experimental, correlational, survey, descriptive, case study, ethnography, narrative, policy, and longitudinal research.

EDUC 825. Development and Learning. 3 Credits.
Introduces influential theoretical approaches to the study of development and learning. Students learn how to apply various methodological approaches and theoretical frameworks. Readings include developmental psychology, learning sciences, and cultural anthropology.

EDUC 826. Seminar in Mental Health and School-Based Counseling. 3 Credits.
This course provides an overview of some of the major mental health problems facing children and adolescents. Equips students entering the school counseling profession with pivotal knowledge needed to develop and implement comprehensive school counseling programs that include collaborative approaches to addressing mental health and wellness. An emphasis will be placed on cognitive-behavioral research-based methods and strategies for addressing emotional and behavioral difficulties of the most prevalent mental health diagnoses of children and adolescents.

EDUC 827. Human Development. 3 Credits.
School of Education majors only. Emphasizes theories of child and adolescent development as well as research findings that aid in the understanding of human behavior and development.

EDUC 828. Educational Measurement and Evaluation. 3 Credits.
Identifies the basic concepts in measurement and evaluation, describes the role of evaluation in curriculum construction and revision, and describes the development and use of teacher-constructed tests.

EDUC 829. Applied Measurement Theory for Education. 3 Credits.
An examination of the logic and theory of educational measurement. Practical applications of measurement theory to the construction and use of a variety of educational measurement devices.

EDUC 830. Field Techniques in Educational Research. 3 Credits.
Introduces students to field research methods and analysis of qualitative data that focuses on the application of these techniques in evaluation and policy research.

EDUC 831. School Law: Justice and Equity. 3 Credits.
Required preparation, six semester hours of graduate school work in school administration. Provides an overview of the legal structure of education, liability, constitutional rights, contractual relationships, federal regulations, and collective action. May be repeated for credit.

EDUC 832. Politics of Education. 3 Credits.
Students study the politics surrounding the nation's largest public institution (education) along with the motivations and maneuvering of people with power to shape it.

EDUC 833. Development and Systems Leadership. 3 Credits.
Focused on the issues pertaining to personnel, planning, facilities, administrative applications of technology, superintendent/board relations, district-level curriculum and assessment issues, and creating and sustaining community inter-agency partnerships.

EDUC 834. Organizational Behavior and Theory in Education. 3 Credits.
Permission of the instructor. Analyze the theoretical assertions and empirical knowledge claims that have led to the dominant structures, power relationships, and performance expectations of American schools.

EDUC 835. Instructional Leadership for Supervision, Curriculum, and Technology. 3 Credits.
Provides fundamental knowledge of instructional design, techniques of teaching/learning, evaluation of the teaching/learning process, and ways in which school-based leaders can support excellence in classroom instruction.

EDUC 836. School Finance and Economic Equity. 3 Credits.
Covers the area of financing school corporations in the current economic and political setting, with emphasis on the interrelationships of educational, economic, and political decisions. May be repeated for credit.

EDUC 837. Cultural Aspects of Leadership and Instruction in School Reform. 3 Credits.
Designed to provide students with perspectives regarding the interplay of cultural issues that challenge the partnership between administration and instruction.

EDUC 838. School Governance. 3 Credits.
Permission of the instructor. Focuses on governance and policy at the school building level and how district-wide governance, state educational policy, federal involvement in education, and educational special interest groups impact school-sized governance.

EDUC 839. The Excellent School Seminar I. 3 Credits.
Permission of the instructor. Research and models on high-performing organizations, instructionally effective schools and school systems, and national school reform efforts presented in the context of traditional and emerging organizational theory and research. .

EDUC 840. Advanced Leadership Theories. 3 Credits.
Requires students to integrate previous studies to focus on management applications, dilemmas, and conflicts.

EDUC 841. Development of a Research Proposal. 3 Credits.
Requires students to integrate previous studies to focus on theory, inquiry, and organizational practice.

EDUC 842. The Excellent School Seminar II. 3 Credits.
Permission of the instructor. Research and models on high-performing organizations, instructionally effective schools and school systems, and national school reform efforts presented in the context of traditional and emerging organizational theory and research.

EDUC 843. Seminar in Educational Studies. 3 Credits.
Focuses on educational issues and theories involving culture, curriculum, and change. Issues and theories addressed will vary.

EDUC 844. Advanced Seminar and Supervised Internship in Educational Administration. 1-6 Credits.
An advanced internship and seminar relevant to the program in administration and to the student's progress toward advanced administrative certification. May be repeated for credit.

EDUC 845. Instructional Strategies for Teaching and Learning in Digital Contexts. 3 Credits.
Will prepare students to enact evidence-based strategies that integrate digital tools and resources for delivering instruction in blended, hybrid, and fully online contexts. Students will design an aligned unit of instruction that includes objectives, assessments, and instructional activities that adhere to instructional design standards and utilize an array of contemporary digital tools. Will consider design approaches that enable the gathering and visualization of data that reflect student activity and performances.

EDUC 846. Personalized and Adaptive Learning. 3 Credits.
This blended, seminar-and-workshop style course (1) provides an overview of learning and instructional design theories, then (2) introduces ways that theory can guide personalization of instructional materials and provision of adaptive design features to produce improved learning experiences and outcomes. Personalization topics in include definitions and policies, approaches that accommodate learners' interests, and ways to provide choice and promote ownership of learning. Adaptivity topics include provision of feedback and support, and designing for learning efficiency.

EDUC 850. Change Leadership and Systems Improvement. 3 Credits.
The course is a core requirement for all students enrolled in the Interprofessional Certificate in Improvement Science and Implementation as well as the Masters of School Administration program. Introduces students to cutting-edge approaches to change leadership and system improvement. It leverages lessons from implementation and improvement sciences to help students learn to drive system change in the nation's schools, social service agencies, community organizations, and healthcare settings.

EDUC 851. Curriculum Theory. 3 Credits.
Relates curriculum development to relevant theories and research in humanistic and behavioral studies. This is an advanced course.

EDUC 852. Instructional Systems Development. 3 Credits.
Delineates strategies for developing instructional systems, including needs assessment, job analysis, goal setting, use of criterion tests, delivery systems, project management, and evaluation of learners and programs.

EDUC 853. Supervision and Instruction. 3 Credits.
Examines the history, nature, and purposes of educational supervision, with an emphasis on the supervisor's role in improving teaching, curriculum development, and staff development.

EDUC 854. Seminar in Curriculum and Instruction. 3 Credits.
Review and interpretation of existing research in the area of curriculum and instruction.

EDUC 855. Problems in Curriculum and Instruction. 3-6 Credits.
Required preparation, two courses in graduate education. Provides an opportunity for advanced students to do independent study under supervision in an area of study. (Sections include early childhood, intermediate, secondary subjects, media, literacy, and general.) May be repeated for credit.

EDUC 856. Practicum in Curriculum and Instruction. 3-6 Credits.
Experiences may include projects, field studies, or internships with one of a number of agencies concerned with education. (Sections include early childhood, intermediate, secondary subjects, media, literacy, and general.)

EDUC 857. Research Apprenticeship. 1-6 Credits.
Research apprenticeship for all students in the Curriculum and Instruction Ed.D. program. Individually arranged with a faculty advisor and an appropriate placement.

EDUC 858. Foundations of Inquiry - Quantitative. 3 Credits.
In this course we focus on quantitative forms of inquiry, highlighting the types of questions quantitative data are best positioned to answer and common forms of data collection and analysis. To foster your development as a scholar-practitioner, the course will provide you with the foundational knowledge to be a discerning consumer of quantitative research and help you find the tools to answer your own well-formed practice-based research questions. For students enrolled in the online Ed.D. in Organizational Learning and Leadership program cohort

EDUC 859. Foundations of Inquiry - Qualitative. 3 Credits.
Foundations of Inquiry -- Qualitative Methods is a graduate level course designed to support students in developing an understanding of qualitative research methods and designs. The focus of this course is on the creation of research questions, the development of qualitative designs, employment of data collection approaches, and analysis procedures to address those problems. For students enrolled in the online Ed.D. in Organizational Learning and Leadership program cohorts.

EDUC 861. Seminar in Special Education. 3 Credits.
Emphasis on developmental deviation exhibited by exceptional children in cognitive, language, social, and affective development.

EDUC 862. Teaching and Personnel Development. 3 Credits.
Focuses on teaching and personnel development at the preservice and inservice levels. Topics include: application of adult learning principles and styles; syllabus development; technology and teaching; supervision; mentorship and research innovations in college teaching.

EDUC 863. Supervised Post-Master's Internship in Special Education. 1-21 Credits.
Permission of the instructor. A full-time field placement under the joint direction of a University staff member and a selected professional at the internship site.

EDUC 864. Families, Schools, and Child Development: Successful Intervention Strategies. 3 Credits.
The purpose of this seminar is to provide an introduction to the theory, research, methods, and current issues related to the influence of families and schools on children's development.

EDUC 865. College Teaching Internship. 1-3 Credits.
Open to graduate students only. Permission of the instructor. This course is designed to give doctoral and masters' students experience at college teaching prior to taking on full responsibility for a class of her/his own. The student will fully participate as a teaching assistant in the class of an experienced tenured, tenure track, or clinical professor.

EDUC 866. Policy to Practice. 3 Credits.
Examine relationships between broader social, economic, and political currents and the chosen instruments for education reform. Students examine what purposes stakeholders believe schools serve and how policy is/isn't translated into practice.

EDUC 867. Issues in Educational Policy and Research. 3 Credits.
Course familiarizes students with public policy in education and its influence on schools and schooling. Students learn methodological perspectives of education policy research. Examine major policy initiatives in education.

EDUC 868. Advanced Qualitative Analysis and Interpretation. 3 Credits.
This advanced seminar focuses on the needs of doctoral students immersed in qualitative research, with an emphasis on data analysis and representation.

EDUC 871. Seminar in Education. 3 Credits.
Required preparation, two courses in graduate education. Permission of the instructor. Provides for seminar treatment of appropriate topics.

EDUC 873. Problems in the Philosophical Foundations of Education. 3-21 Credits.
Provides an opportunity for advanced doctoral students to do independent study under supervision.

EDUC 874. Problems in the Sociological Foundations of Education. 3-21 Credits.
Provides an opportunity for advanced doctoral students to do independent study under supervision.

EDUC 876. Histories of School and Schooling. 3 Credits.
Course provides an understanding of the history of American public education, its current status and research in education based in a larger context of society, and its schools and schooling practices.

EDUC 877. Critical Multicultural Education. 3 Credits.
Examination of the current issues in multicultural education, cultural study, and the development of curriculum for critical multicultural education.

EDUC 878. Seminar in Educational Studies. 3 Credits.
Involves an in-depth exploration of theories and issues involving culture, curriculum, and change. Topics will vary.

EDUC 879. Causal Inference in Educational Research. 3 Credits.
The seminar will explore issues related to causal inference in educational research and discuss several research designs that are well-suited for making causal inferences. We will draw upon the counter-factual model of causality to discuss what it means to observe a cause and effect relationship and then focus on the problems researchers regularly encounter. The course will provide a detailed discussion of a wide range of experimental and quasi-experimental research designs.

EDUC 881. Seminar in Human Development and Individual Differences. 3 Credits.
Required preparation, at least one course in human development at the graduate level or permission of the instructor. Analyzes research data and theoretical positions pertaining to individual differences in human development in the educational setting.

EDUC 882. Seminar in Human Learning and Cognition. 3 Credits.
Required preparation, one or two courses in educational and developmental psychology. Studies theoretical aspects and practical implications of psychologies of learning.

EDUC 883. Case Study Methods. 3 Credits.
Provides students with an overview of the methodology of case study research and to enhance students' skills in using research techniques.

EDUC 884. Statistical Analysis of Educational Data III. 3 Credits.
An extension of the general linear model to analysis of educational data with multiple dependent variables, with computer applications.

EDUC 885. Secondary Data Analysis. 3 Credits.
Provides students who have an introductory background in statistics with an overview of secondary data analysis and enhances students' skills in using data analysis to test hypotheses.

EDUC 887. Teacher Education Seminar for MAT Supervisors. 1 Credits.
This course is required during both fall and spring semesters for all MAT supervisors. The course will focus on exploring teacher education through the lens of field-based supervision. Weekly meetings to bring teacher education research and literature to supervisors' ongoing practice through discussion of selected readings, book study, dialogue about problems of practice. The course will align supervisors' practice in the field with MAT methods pedagogical approaches for supervisors to best support candidates.

EDUC 888. Introduction to Structural Modeling. 3 Credits.
Introduces structural equation modeling with both observed and latent variables. Applications include confirmatory factor analysis, multiple group analyses, longitudinal analyses, and multitrait-multimethod models.

EDUC 890. Special Topics in Education. 1-3 Credits.
This course provides students the opportunity for intensive exploration and discussion of selected topics in education.

EDUC 891. Educational Policy Doctoral Seminar. 3 Credits.
Provides for seminar treatment of appropriate topics related to education policy.

EDUC 892. Seminar in Educational Studies. 3-6 Credits.
Topics in educational philosophy to be determined by the students with the instructor. May be repeated for credit.

EDUC 893. Foundations of Leadership. 3 Credits.
The course aims to provide a systematic examination of leadership in practice and how these examples result in successful leadership practices relative to theories of leadership, ethical frameworks, and your personal strengths and abilities. From these reflections you will develop an intellectually rigorous, personal statement of leadership. For students enrolled in the online Ed.D. in Organizational Learning and Leadership program cohort

EDUC 894. Item Response Theory. 3 Credits.
A first course in test theory (e.g., EDUC 829, PSYC 842) is recommended but not required. Please ask the course instructor if you are unsure about prerequisites. This course covers basic and advanced topics in item response theory (IRT). Examples are taken from educational testing, psychological assessment, and patient-reported health outcomes. Students produce a term project applying IRT to assessment data, and / or addressing mathematical or computational aspects of IRT.

EDUC 902. Sociology of School Improvement. 3 Credits.
This course aims to develop a sociological understanding of the complex relationship between education and society.

EDUC 904. Exploring Representations of Education in Popular Culture. 3 Credits.
Students in this course explore and analyze how education has been represented in popular culture. Theoretical foundation of the course from seminars and readings.

EDUC 905. Leading Organizations to Equitable Practice. 3 Credits.
This course will provide the foundational knowledge for creating, sustaining, and leading an inclusive culture within organizations. You will learn to incorporate multiple stakeholders' voices within and outside the organization through an equity-minded leadership lens. We will place a strong emphasis on collaboration and coalition building within organizations to create an effective organizational culture in which all stakeholders can thrive. For students enrolled in the online Ed.D. in Organizational Learning and Leadership program cohort

EDUC 906. Education of African Americans. 3 Credits.
Students examine historical and contemporary aims for and assumptions underlying the public "education" of African Americans in the United States. Analysis of published histories, theories, qualtitative and quantitative research, encounters, events, and issues.

EDUC 909. Applied Quantitative Methods in Curriculum and Teacher Education. 3 Credits.
Applied statistics course designed to introduce students to how descriptive and inferential statistics are used in curriculum studies and teacher education. Students explore how statistical procedures are used in school, school district, state, and national settings.

EDUC 913. Language, Identity, and Power. 3 Credits.
Language is involved in the construction of social identity and power structures. Students examine how individuals construct their identities and language interacts with other social groupings (class, ethnicity, and gender) and examines how language creates and maintains power for certain groups. Special attention to marginalized groups in the United States.

EDUC 915. Introduction to Learning Sciences. 3 Credits.
Course is designed to provide an overview of the field of learning sciences. Goals of learning sciences are: 1) understand the physical, cognitive, and social aspects of learning environments and 2) use these understandings to design more effective learning environments.

EDUC 918. Introduction to Cognitive Science and Sociocultural Perspectives on Learning. 3 Credits.
Course provides an overview of learning theories in education with a special emphasis upon a sociocultural perspective. Course examines how learning theories are or can be enacted in research, policy, and practice.

EDUC 919. Design of Technology-Enhanced Learning Environments. 3 Credits.
This course provides a studio-based approach to the design of technology-enhanced learning environments for formal and informal education. Students will explore various forms of emerging technologies for education, engage in a design thinking process, and design prototypes to solve a specific learning problem.

EDUC 922. Mixed Methods Research. 3 Credits.
Explore foundations of mixed methods. Build familiarity with research designs and methods, learning how to integrate data from mixed methods designs. Learn to critique mixed methods research and designs. Provides preparation for proposing mixed methods projects.

EDUC 923. Design Based Research. 3 Credits.
DBR is a multi-disciplinary and mixed methods approach. When developing interventions DBR designers draw theoretical insights from various disciplines (e.g. cognitive science, sociology, learning sciences, instructional design, etc.). When researching interventions, DBR researchers draw from numerous modes of inquiry. Thus, this course is not a substitute for further work in quantitative or qualitative courses. Students in this course should have some grounding in quantitative and qualitative methods and we draw upon this knowledge.

EDUC 930. Economics of Education. 3 Credits.
Students consider and critically reflect upon the contributions of economic theory to educational policy issues. Course provides an overview of economic theories as they pertain to the provision of public education and an overview of econometrics. Focuses on salient topics in educational policy and their analysis through an economic lens.

EDUC 931. School Law and Public Policy. 3 Credits.
Course examines the judiciary's role in policy making, and its direct impact on school law and policy issues as they pertain to schools, stakeholders, and society.

EDUC 935. Multilevel Modeling. 3 Credits.
The primary goal for the course is to assist the students in investigating research problems in social sciences, particularly when data is meaningfully organized into multiple layers as a hierarchy, or contextual levels. Multilevel models (MLM) are also known as hierarchical linear models (HLM), random coefficient models, or random effects models. MLM can be used to analyze a variety of questions with either categorical or continuous dependent variables, and explained by many independent variables.

EDUC 945. Intellectual Histories of Educational Thought. 3 Credits.
Course will explore ideas about children, families, knowledge, and the state that resonate through European and U.S. histories, primarily, and, though changed, continue to be debated now.

EDUC 947. Diversity in Teacher Education. 3 Credits.
Focus on research in teacher education that addresses diversity issues, a particular focus on sociocultural and sociopolitical approaches. Course emphasizes the relationship between theory and practice by focusing on the teacher as an agent of change.

EDUC 948. Research in Teacher Education and Diversity. 3 Credits.
Course looks at research in teacher education that addresses diversity issues, with a particular focus on sociocultural and sociopolitical approaches. Course will emphasize the relationship between theory and practice by focusing on the teacher as an agent of change in addressing issues of equity and social justice in diverse classrooms.

EDUC 949. Institutional Logics of Curriculum and Teaching. 3 Credits.
Learn about institutional theory and management and issues, policies and practices that describe, define, complicate, and confine those whose work focuses on curriculum and teaching.

EDUC 950A. Advanced Curriculum in the Humanities. 3 Credits.
Course brings together those with interests in academic disciplines of literature, history, foreign languages and literatures, English as a second language, and the arts to examine the status of the humanities in our society and in our P-12 schools. Students will consider socio-cultural and political contexts and contributions to the humanities.

EDUC 953. Research and Policy in Teacher Education. 3 Credits.
Study different approaches taken to studying teacher education and the implications of that work on policy, tracing the trajectory from research to policy.

EDUC 954. Leading Organizations to Equitable Practice. 3 Credits.
This course will provide the foundational knowledge for creating, sustaining, and leading an inclusive culture within organizations. You will learn to incorporate multiple stakeholders' voices within and outside the organization through an equity-minded leadership lens. We will place a strong emphasis on collaboration and coalition building within organizations to create an effective organizational culture in which all stakeholders can thrive. This course is core course in the curriculum for the EdD concentration in Organizational Learning and Leadership.

EDUC 956. Applied Quantitative Methods. 3 Credits.
In this course, students learn how to analyze quantitative data from various sources (e.g., administrative, survey) to answer pragmatic questions. The course focuses on generating and interpreting graphical descriptive summaries and the associations between multiple continuous or categorical variables. You will also be introduced to the inferential statistics concepts of hypothesis testing and confidence intervals to characterize the uncertainty of conclusions based on the data. Students will use data visualization software. This course is a required methods course in the curriculum for the EdD concentration in Organizational Learning and Leadership .

EDUC 970. Applied Theory and Research: Dissertation Proposal Prep. 3 Credits.
Course explores planning and conducting qualitative research. Students will apply knowledge of qualitative research to dissertation proposal/projects. They will also explore different research proposals and data collection strategies.

EDUC 972. Critical Race Theory: History, Research, and Practice. 3 Credits.
Course will explore the historical development of Critical Race Theory (CRT) from its origins in Critical Legal Studies through the more recent frameworks established in education, including intersections with LatCrit Theory, AsianCrit, QueerCrit, TribalCrit, and Critical Race Feminism.

EDUC 973. Schooling Experiences of Men of Color. 3 Credits.
Focus, through a critical lens, will be on African American and Latino men, also covers experiences of Asian American and Native American males. Study of research that addresses issues of identity, masculinities, system barriers, cultural capital, and peer group dynamics.

EDUC 974. Critical Social Theory. 3 Credits.
Course explores critical social theories through popular culture texts. Course challenges the perception that popular culture texts have little to offer in the way of educational discourse.

EDUC 977. Autoethnography Educational Research. 3 Credits.
Course will focus on the theory and practice of autoethnography, or "reading" significant patterns in everyday experience and connecting those patterns to the self and to broader social concerns. Students will read models of autoethnography, methodological works, do writing exercises, and create independent autoethnographic projects.

EDUC 990. Supervised Research. 1-3 Credits.
Open to graduate students only. Provides students with the opportunity to work with individual faculty members in collaborative research activities in association with a seminar during the second, third, and fourth semesters of study. May be repeated for credit.

EDUC 992. Master's (Non-Thesis). 3 Credits.
Focuses on the development of a master's project or a major paper other than a thesis.

EDUC 993. Master's Research and Thesis. 3 Credits.
No description available.

EDUC 994. Doctoral Research and Dissertation. 3 Credits.
No description available.

