MHCH 605. Breastfeeding and Global Health Seminar. 3 Credits.
This survey course will briefly cover the principal topics in this broad field of knowledge, including domestic and global issues.

MHCH 610. Issues in Maternal and Child Health. 3 Credits.
Permission of the instructor. For students outside the department of MCH who desire a survey of current issues and programs in maternal and child health. Three lecture hours per week.

MHCH 611. Food And Your Life Stages. 3 Credits.
This course covers nutrition during the life cycle. Units include women during preconception, pregnancy, and lactation; infancy; childhood; adolescence; and older adults (65+). Nutrient and energy needs, assessment of nutritional status, and cultural and socioeconomic barriers are discussed for each phase.

MHCH 625. Injury as a Public Health Problem. 3 Credits.
This course examines unintentional injuries from a public health perspective. The course covers core concepts in injury prevention and control, including the epidemiology of unintentional injury, prevention strategies, behavioral models, child and adolescent injury, messaging framing, the Haddon matrix, and injury surveillance.

MHCH 626. Violence as a Public Health Problem. 3 Credits.
This course covers core concepts in violence prevention and control, including the epidemiology of violence, prevention strategies for inter-personal and intra-personal violence, behavioral models that describe power structures that reinforce personal and societal factors affecting self-harm and violence towards others, and violence directed towards children and adolescents.

MHCH 664. Globalization and Health. 3 Credits.
Globalization--its economic, environmental, political, technological, institutional, and sociocultural dimensions--historically and currently contributes to beneficial and adverse effects on population, community, and family and individual health.

MHCH 665. Introduction to Racial and Ethnic Health Disparities. 1 Credits.
Eliminating health disparities is a national goal for improving the health of Americans. Little to no progress has been made on eliminating disparities among racial/ethnic subpopulations compared to the population of the United States. This course treats basic concepts about the origins of and contributing factors for health disparities.

MHCH 680. Global Sexual and Reproductive Health. 1 Credits.
Featuring international experts from UNC-Chapel Hill and Triangle-based nongovernmental organizations, this course will offer a series of lectures, panel discussions, and debates to inform students' critical thinking on key public health issues in global sexual and reproductive health.

MHCH 685. Human Sexuality. 1 Credits.
Through lectures and panel discussions this course will use a life span framework to examine selected aspects of sexual development, including perspectives on sexuality; the physical self; sexual attraction, behavior, and relationships; and the implications of these factors for physical and mental health. No prerequisites; all students are welcome.

MHCH 690. Special Topics in Maternal Health and Child Health. 1-3 Credits.
Special topics in maternal health and child health. Content will vary from semester to semester.

MHCH 701. Foundations of Maternal and Child Health I. 3 Credits.
This course introduces the major issues affecting the health and well-being of women during the reproductive years, infants, children, and adolescents in domestic and international settings. First semester of a two-semester course. Permission of the instructor for non-majors.

MHCH 702. Foundations of Maternal and Child Health II. 2 Credits.
Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Second part of a two-part course that introduces the major issues affecting the health and well-being of women during the reproductive years, infants, children and adolescents in domestic and international settings. Second semester of a two-semester course.

MHCH 704. Critical Review of an Infant Feeding Issue. 3 Credits.
This independent study will include selection of a research area that would allow preparation of a coauthored paper for peer-review publication on an approved subject related to infant and young child feeding and care and associated maternal health and nutrition issues.

MHCH 710. Leadership in Maternal and Child Health. 2 Credits.
This course is designed to integrate the theory, research literature, and evidence-supported practices related to leadership in maternal and child health. Students will consider each of the twelve core MCH Leadership Competencies within the spheres of influence that leaders experience as they advance in their careers. Students will hear from public health professionals in the field, consider perspectives of various stakeholders and examine/apply new skills.

MHCH 713. Research Methods in Maternal and Child Health. 3 Credits.
The art and science of MCH research, with an emphasis on the critical evaluation of research design and findings. Focuses on the principles of strong quantitative and qualitative study designs, analytic approaches, and secondary data analysis. A practice-based course. Three lecture hours per week. Permission of the instructor for nonmajors.

MHCH 713L. Research and Evaluation Methods in Maternal and Child Health Lab. 1 Credits.
Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. The MHCH 713 lab, which is a companion course to MHCH 713, introduces students to statistical analysis using Stata. One hour and 15 minutes of lab per week.

MHCH 716. International Family Planning and Reproductive Health. 3 Credits.
Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Course provides overview of critical issues including major theoretical frameworks, patterns and trends over time, and overview of history of family planning and reproductive health policy development. Three lecture hours per week.

MHCH 720. Services for Children with Chronic Conditions. 3 Credits.
Permission of the instructor. This course focuses on the design, organization, and delivery of services for children with special needs and their families, and examines current program development and public policies. Participants analyze the range of services needed by these children.

MHCH 722. Global Maternal and Child Health. 3 Credits.
This course covers the main causes of maternal and under-five morbidity and mortality in low- and middle-income countries and also the interventions, policies, and research which address these causes. Emphasis is placed on social, biological and environmental determinants, measurement and conceptual frameworks. Lectures, class discussions and in-class activities are used to delve into the material. Emphasis is placed on both country-driven and global initiatives to improve maternal and child health outcomes.

MHCH 723. Introduction to Monitoring and Evaluation. 3 Credits.
This course provides students with the basic concepts and methodologies needed to monitor and evaluate global health programs. The course covers M&E systems, conceptual frameworks/logic models, indicators, information sources, evaluation designs, and other related topics for health programs in global settings. This course is a requirement for the MCFH and GH concentrations. The course format consists of a seminar-style class that meets weekly.

MHCH 724. Abortion Care and Policy. 2 Credits.
This course will provide an overview of the critical issues in abortion care and policy, both in the US and globally. We will cover the epidemiology of abortion globally and nationally and will explore the historical, legal, cultural, bioethical and clinical dimensions of abortion care and policy.

MHCH 726. Adolescent Health. 3 Credits.
Topics covered include the epidemiology of health problems, developmental issues, health services, and psychosocial influences on adolescent problem behaviors. Course materials are useful for research generation and practical application. Three seminar hours per week.

MHCH 728. Introduction to Implementation Research and Practice in Maternal, Child and Family Health. 3 Credits.
Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Implementation research and practice addresses the gap between the development of innovations in public health and their delivery in routine practice. Course provides an overview of core theories/methods in implementation research and practice plus implementation determinants and strategies at the intervention, individual, organizational, and policy levels.

MHCH 729. Implementation Science for Global Maternal and Child Health. 3 Credits.
This course examines contributions of implementation science to global maternal and child health with a focus on research methods. The course builds on introductory implementation science courses to highlight further the application of implementation science theories, frameworks, and tools to challenges in global health.

MHCH 732. Gender-Based Violence. 3 Credits.
The MHCH Gender-Based Violence (GBV) course provides a forum for students to explore contemporary issues in GBV from both a research and practice standpoint. Students will be introduced to a myriad of domestic and international GBV issues, such as intimate partner violence and campus sexual assault.

MHCH 740. Problems in Maternal and Child Health. 1-3 Credits.
Prerequisites to be arranged with departmental faculty in each individual case for this self-/independent-study course. Two to six hours a week.

MHCH 745. Applied Methods for Health Transformation Implementation in MCH. 1-3 Credits.
MHCH 745 will integrate theory, research literature, and evidence-supported practices that promote optimal population health outcomes in women, children, adolescents, and family. The course will allow participants to examine and apply knowledge and skills that lead to health transformation in the 21st century. Topics include: Title V assessment, current funding for MHCH; equity and the social determinants of health; workforce development; change management and leadership; community engagement; systems thinking; evidence-based decision making; and implementation science.

MHCH 765. Clinical Support for Breastfeeding. 3 Credits.
Master's or clinical four-year degree required. This two-semester clinical course is structured to provide supervised breastfeeding support education in the context of clinical lactation services and public health practice.

MHCH 766. Clinical Support for Breastfeeding II. 3 Credits.
Master's or clinical four-year degree required. This two-semester clinical course is structured to provide supervised breastfeeding support education in the context of clinical lactation services and public health practice.

MHCH 775. Introduction to Qualitative Methods in Public Health Research. 3 Credits.
This introductory qualitative research methods course focuses on understanding the meaning, purpose, and basic concepts of qualitative research for public health practice. Through applied work, students will learn how to formulate qualitative research questions, develop interview guides, collect data, analyze data, and report findings.

MHCH 780. Cultural Humility. 2 Credits.
Cultural Humility is part of the required training sequence for first-year MPH students in the Global Health concentration. This course provides students with the skills to work in culturally complex settings and to apply cultural humility when engaging in global health research and practice. This course is also designed to give students the skills to identify and effectively address ethical issues that arise in global health research and practice. MPH Global Health Concentration students only.

MHCH 785. Decolonizing MCH: Theory and Qualitative Methods. 3 Credits.
This graduate seminar provides Maternal and Child Health (MCH) students with an opportunity to examine key theories and qualitative methodologies that advance anti-racist, abolitionist, intersectional feminist, and emancipatory scholarship for health equity and reproductive justice. Students gain a deeper understanding of the intellectual foundations of research justice. And learn to design research questions, data collection strategies, and analytic techniques that decolonize knowledge production. Preference given to students enrolled in the MCH department or MCFH concentration.

MHCH 801. Doctoral Research Seminar. 3 Credits.
The MCH Doctoral Seminar provides a forum for first year MCH doctoral students to hone their skills in developing research questions, searching scientific literature, and preparing comprehensive literature reviews for publication. It introduces students to several types of literature reviews used to inform health practices, programs and policies. MCH doctoral students only.

MHCH 840. Maternal and Child Health Doctoral Teaching Internship. 1 Credits.
Enrollment in MCH doctoral program required. MCH internship to enhance doctoral training in teaching.

MHCH 841. Maternal and Child Health Doctoral Research Internship. 1 Credits.
Enrollment in MCH doctoral program required. This MCH internship is to enhance doctoral training in research through exposure to and participation in various stages of research.

MHCH 851. Reproductive and Perinatal Epidemiology. 3 Credits.
Epidemiology of reproductive and perinatal health outcomes, including infertility, fetal loss, preterm birth, birthweight, congenital malformations, and infant mortality. Includes current knowledge regarding epidemiology of these outcomes and discussion of methodologic issues. Three lecture hours per week.

MHCH 853. Advanced Topics in Perinatal and Pediatric Epidemiology. 2 Credits.
Critical review of current topics in, and methods for, perinatal and pediatric epidemiology.

MHCH 859. Proposal Development for Maternal and Child Health. 3 Credits.
A course in the development and preparation of a research proposal of high public health significance and methodological rigor, following the format of an NIH application. Students will also be introduced to the NIH review process and engage in critical evaluation of peer assignments. This is a required course for doctoral students. Permission required for non-majors, masters & 1st year doctoral students.

MHCH 860. Conceptualization, Design, and Measurement. 3 Credits.
The course follows the research process from the formulation of a research question and the design of a research methodology to the addressing of the question through the design of an appropriate analysis strategy. Three lecture hours a week.

MHCH 862. Program Impact Evaluation. 3 Credits.
Required preparation, knowledge of Stata or SAS; proficiency in inferential statistics and multiple regression analysis. Instructor permission required for non-second year MCH doctoral students. Program impact evaluation analytic skills seminar. Topics: selectivity, research designs, instrumental variables, difference-in-differences, fixed and random effects, regression discontinuity, matching, and selection models.

MHCH 890. Special Topics in Maternal and Child Health. 1-3 Credits.
Special topics in Maternal and Child Health for graduate students only. Content will vary semester to semester.

MHCH 992. Master's (Non-Thesis). 3 Credits.
Master's independent learning experience for MCFH students. Please sign up under your faculty mentor's section number.

MHCH 994. Doctoral Research and Dissertation. 3 Credits.
For MCH doctoral students in their dissertation phase. Doctoral students must have passed the Doctoral Written Comprehensive Exams before registering for this course. Please sign up under your faculty advisor's section number.

