GOVT 660. Municipal Administration. 4 Credits.
This course covers municipal government organization and management, finance, personnel, planning and economic development, and the administration of specific municipal functions.

GOVT 661. County Administration. 4 Credits.
This course covers county government organization and management, finance, personnel, planning, and economic development, and the administration of specific municipal functions.

GOVT 662. Information Technology Project Management and Leadership. 3 Credits.
Examines the public sector environment as it relates to information technology development. Special attention focused on the complex environment and its influence on information technology-based solutions.

GOVT 663. Public Executive Leadership Academy. 6 Credits.
The Public Executive Leadership Academy is designed for North Carolina city and county managers to understand themselves as leaders and to prepare the organization to work with others in improving the quality of life within the community.

GOVT 664. Chief Information Office Certification Program. 5 Credits.
The CIO Certification Program is designed for chief information officers of local governments in North Carolina. The course lays the foundation for addressing the most critical issues facing IT leadership in local government and equips leaders with tools to manage and improve their organizational assets.

GOVT 772. Local Government in North Carolina. 3 Credits.
The purpose of this course is to familiarize students with the purpose, structure, and function of local governments in North Carolina. At the course's conclusion, students should be able to identify and discuss the operation and governance structure of North Carolina counties and municipalities. Moreover, students should develop a reasonably comprehensive framework to analyze and understand the legal, cultural, and political environments of the various regions throughout the state. Lead for North Carolina Participants Only.

GOVT 773. Public Service in Action. 1.5 Credits.
This course will build on the concepts of community, place, and service that were explored in Governance 772. Now that students understand the basic functions of a local government, they can begin to think globally about how to best affect change and make a lasting impact on their host governments.

