RECR 710. Leisure and Organized Recreation in the United States. 3 Credits.
An analysis of the scope of leisure research, recreation services, the evolution of leisure, and the of individual recreation behavior.

RECR 770. Administration of Therapeutic Recreation Services. 3 Credits.
Emphasis on information specific to the administration of therapeutic recreation such as fiscal management, quality assurance, evaluation, marketing of therapeutic recreation, and other general administrative topics.

RECR 775. Principles and Procedures in Therapeutic Recreation. 3 Credits.
A study of the existing practices and principles of therapeutic recreation. An in-depth treatment of assessment/evaluation, goal setting and individualized planning, documentation, leisure counseling, and clinical skills.

RECR 790. Independent Field Study. 3 Credits.
Permission of the department. May be repeated for credit.

RECR 830. Managing Organizational Behavior in Recreation Services. 3 Credits.
This course addresses organizational behavior and theory to promote insight into micro and macro issues confronting professionals in organized recreation services.

RECR 865. Issues and Trends in Recreation Management. 3 Credits.
A seminar to involve graduate recreation students in in-depth analyses of selected topics, issues, and problems relevant to the recreation management in public and not-for-profit leisure service organizations.

RECR 876. Issues and Trends in Therapeutic Recreation. 3 Credits.
An analysis of selected issues, problems, and concerns in the provision of therapeutic recreation and inclusive recreation services.

RECR 880. Internship in Recreation Administration. 2 Credits.
Participation in full-time, practical on-the-job experience in a recreational agency of the student's choice.

RECR 881. Internship in Recreation Administration. 2 Credits.
Completion of a professional project and in-depth paper reflecting the outcomes of the internship completed in RECR 880.

RECR 890. Seminar in Leisure Studies. 3 Credits.
A survey of contemporary views of society and their structures and functions, as they relate to concepts of leisure and recreation behaviors.

RECR 950. Recreation Research Design and Methods I. 3 Credits.
An appraisal of current recreation and leisure research design using both quantitative and qualitative data. Students complete and deliver a formal research proposal.

RECR 951. Recreation Research Design and Methods II. 3 Credits.
Required preparation, any statistics course. Students analyze quantitative and qualitative data and apply their work to theory and practice. Students complete the research proposed in RECR 950.

RECR 993. Master's Research and Thesis. 3 Credits.
No description available.

