PLSH 280. The Modern Cinema of Poland. 3 Credits.
An overview of Polish cinema from the 1950s into the 21st century. Includes films of Kieslowski, Munk, Polanski, Wajda, and others. Films with English subtitles. Readings and discussions in English.

PLSH 401. Elementary Polish I. 3 Credits.
Proficiency-based instruction at the elementary level that develops the four language skills (speaking, listening, reading, writing). In addition to mastering basic vocabulary and grammar, students will communicate in Polish about everyday topics.

PLSH 402. Elementary Polish II. 3 Credits.
Continuation of the proficiency-based instruction in PLSH 401. Course emphasizes speaking, listening, reading, writing in a cultural context. Students enhance their basic vocabulary and grammar and will regularly communicate in Polish about everyday topics.

PLSH 403. Intermediate Polish I. 3 Credits.
Continuation of the proficiency-based instruction begun in elementary Polish.

PLSH 404. Intermediate Polish II. 3 Credits.
Continuation of the proficiency-based instruction begun in elementary Polish, continued.

PLSH 405. Advanced Polish I. 3 Credits.
Advanced readings and discussion in Polish on humanities and social science topics.

PLSH 406. Advanced Polish II. 3 Credits.
Advanced readings and discussion in Polish on humanities and social science topics, continued.

PLSH 411. 19th-Century Polish Literature and Culture. 3 Credits.
An overview of the major literary, cultural and social movements in 19th-century Poland (Romanticism, Positivism and Young Poland) as they relate to Europe more broadly. All readings and discussions in English; readings available in Polish for qualified students.

PLSH 412. From Communism to Capitalism: 20th- and 21st-Century Polish Literature and Culture. 3 Credits.
An overview of the literary and cultural movements in 20th and 21st century Poland as they relate to major historical changes of the century (World War I and World War II, Communism, Post-communism, accession to the European Union). All readings and discussions in English; readings available in Polish for qualified students.

PLSH 490. Topics in Polish Culture. 3 Credits.
Study of topics in Polish literature and culture not currently covered in any other course. The specific topic will be announced in advance. Taught in English. Some readings in Polish for qualified students.

