PACE 815. Evaluation Research and Project Design. 3 Credits.
This course provides formal instruction on critical components of evaluation research, study design, and data analyses that a Master in Pharmaceutical Sciences with a specialization in health system pharmacy administration graduate will need in the workplace.

PACE 820. Health-System Pharmacy Leadership. 3 Credits.
Graduate student status in the MS in Pharmaceutical Sciences (Health-System Pharmacy Administration subplan) program required. This course focuses on principles of leadership and strategies used by leaders, with an emphasis in health-system pharmacy. Active learning strategies are used to examine and model leadership principles.

PACE 825. Foundational Practices of a Successful Health-System Department of Pharmacy. 4 Credits.
MS in Pharmaceutical Sciences students with a specialization in Health-System Pharmacy Administration. This course will focus on the Foundational Practices of a Successful Health-System Department of Pharmacy. Topics covered include medication safety, pharmacy informatics, and human resources management.

PACE 832. Financial Management of Health-system Pharmacy. 3 Credits.
MS in Pharmaceutical Sciences students only. This course provides an overview of the current financial environment in the health care industry and is intended to familiarize students with general accounting principles and financial management skills required to lead and manage pharmacy services in a health care organization.

PACE 833. Overview of Health Systems. 3 Credits.
MS in Pharmaceutical Sciences students with a specialization in Health-System Pharmacy Administration. This course is designed to expose participants to real world issues facing health system pharmacy leaders and to teach participants to work through concepts, processes, and challenges that are and will be faced.

PACE 860. Advanced Hospital Pharmacy Operations. 3 Credits.
This course is intended to build on the basic principles of pharmacy operations learned through coursework and experience as professional students as well as work experience.

PACE 896. Independent Study in PACE. 1-8 Credits.
Independent Study in the Division of Practice Advancement and Clinical Education.

