OPER 701. Operative Dentistry Seminar II. 1 Credits.
(Aesthetic and Adhesive Dentistry.) In this seminar, graduate students will learn the scientific principles and clinical techniques involved in dental aesthetics and adhesive restorations. Students may be required to develop a case presentation for this seminar.

OPER 702. Operative Literature Review I. 1 Credits.
This is a weekly seminar offering a forum for presentation and discussion of relevant scientific papers on various operative dentistry related topics. Typically, a resident or faculty member presents one or more relevant papers, which is followed by a critical analysis of the study and discussion of the topic.

OPER 704. Operative Clinical Seminar A. 1 Credits.
This seminar will involve a series of presentations where the student will present clinical cases resolved in the graduate clinic.

OPER 731. Cariology. 1 Credits.
Discusses specific topics related to Cariology. Students will provide care in clinic identifying and treating patients based on caries risk assessment. Seminar formats include lectures, discussions, literature reviews, and practical (hands-on) exercises. Students must present a clinical case discussing alternative treatment based on patient's caries risk assessment.

OPER 732. Introduction to Operative Dentistry. 3 Credits.
Provides students with broad introduction to key Operative Dentistry concepts. Students will be exposed to a wide variety of topics, including intensive training in direct restorations, dental photography, fabrication of diagnostic casts and implant stents. Prepares incoming graduate students for clinical patient care and teaching in predoctoral courses and clinics.

OPER 736. Graduate Dental Biomaterials II. 3 Credits.
No description available.

OPER 790. Operative Dentistry Clinic II. 2-6 Credits.
(Patient treatment.) Primary focus is on patients requiring more advanced considerations for operative dentistry treatment planning and/or procedures. There will be a strong focus on aesthetic dentistry, prevention, and 'medical management' of caries, and the use of advanced technologies to provide operative dentistry treatment.

OPER 810. Applied Biomaterials Research. 3 Credits.
This course involves application of the principles of in-vitro testing of dental materials. Students will be required to prepare, subject them to specified testing, and collect data.

OPER 992. Master's (Non-Thesis). 3 Credits.
Individual research under the direction of a mentor with the intention of publication. Completion of a manuscript and submission is a requirement for an MS degree.

