PERI 711. Periodontal Therapy. 1 Credits.
This graduate seminar reviews techniques and procedures for treating periodontal diseases. Topics include gingival grafting, surgical flap management, osseous surgery, periodontal regeneration, antimicrobials, host modulation, and periodontal medicine.

PERI 721. Case Analysis. 2 Credits.
This graduate seminar continues themes introduced in PERI 720 and discusses advanced implant topics including bone augmentation, peri-implantitis, and implant efficacy assessment. The seminar includes didactic lectures, case presentations, and journal club components. Spring.

PERI 723. Case Analysis. 2 Credits.
No description available.

PERI 731. Seminar in Periodontology. 2 Credits.
In this first-year literature review course, graduate students present and evaluate the evidence on periodontal disease etiology, pathogenesis, risk factors and treatments including mechanical, surgical, and pharmacological approaches.

PERI 761. Seminar in Periodontology. 2 Credits.
In this second- and third-year literature review course, graduate students discuss evidence on advanced topics in periodontology or related disciplines.

PERI 821. Clinical Implantology. 1 Credits.
This graduate seminar continues themes introduced in PERI 820 and discusses advanced implant topics including bone augmentation, peri-implantitis, and implant efficacy assessment. The seminar includes didactic lectures, case presentations, and journal club components.

PERI 891. Advanced Clinical Periodontics and Clinical Practice. 2-6 Credits.
Within this specialty clinic, graduate students gain experience and competency in diagnosing and comprehensively treating patients with periodontal diseases. Cases may involve interdisciplinary care, medical management, dental implants, and sedation procedures.

PERI 992. Master's (Non-Thesis). 3 Credits.
Individual research under the direction of a mentor with the intention of publication. Completion of a manuscript and publication is a requirement for an MS degree.

