DPOP 766. Epidemiologic Research with Healthcare Databases. 3 Credits.
Required preparation, competency in data management with SAS (BIOS 511, EPID 700, or equivalent). Learn how healthcare utilization data are generated and use databases to identify study populations and conduct epidemiologic analysis of the utilization and comparative effectiveness/safety of prescription drugs and healthcare services.

DPOP 801. Economics and Behavior of the International Pharmaceutical Industry. 3 Credits.
This course focuses on the empirical investigation of the economic and health impact of major pharmaceutical policies, regulations, market conditions, prescription drug use, and pharmaceutical care.

DPOP 803. Social and Behavioral Aspects of Pharmaceutical Use. 3 Credits.
This course will draw upon medical sociology and health psychology to familiarize students with core theories, research, measures, and design issues relevant to conducting social/behavioral research in pharmaceutical use.

DPOP 806. Pharmaceutical Policy. 3 Credits.
Course examines policies that influence pharmacy. Structured methods of policy analysis are examined and used to assess theoretic and analytic applications for evaluating pharmaceutical policy.

DPOP 870. Pharmaceutical Outcomes Research. 3 Credits.
Required preparation, introductory statistics and research methods coursework. Permission of the instructor for students lacking the required preparation. This is an intermediate-to-advanced-level applied and contemporary research methods class for students to build methodological and analytical knowledge to conduct high quality studies in evaluating pharmaceutical treatment utilization and outcomes.

DPOP 872. Proposal Writing in DPOP. 3 Credits.
How to write research proposals, including dissertation grants.

DPOP 899. Seminar. 1 Credits.
Forum for scholarly discussion of policy issues, research ideas and methods, campus and industry research resources, and the presentation of ongoing research. In addition to presentations by DPOP faculty and students, seminar will include presentations from invited researchers from industry, managed care, foundations, health care organizations, clinicians, and other departments.

DPOP 900. Introduction to Research in DPOP. 2-3 Credits.
This course offers students the opportunity to work with a faculty mentor on a research project.

DPOP 901. Selected Topics in Pharmaceutical Outcomes and Policy. 1-3 Credits.
A reading and/or special projects course for both undergraduate and graduate students interested in pursuing additional work in the administrative and social sciences as they pertain to pharmacy practice. One to three hours a week.

