MTSC 615. Structure of Solids. 3 Credits.
Crystallography, reciprocal lattices, Bloch waves, band structure, electronic wave functions, phonons, thermal expansion. Superlattice structures, including liquid crystals. Overview of properties of ceramic, amorphous, polymeric, and composite materials.

MTSC 710. Materials Science First Year Seminar: Resources for success in your PhD program. 1 Credits.
The Materials Science graduate student seminar series is a 1-credit course required for first year MTSC students. It is designed to expose students to APS research and key resources and skills outside of course work that they will need to be successful in the PhD program and beyond. Sessions will include research talks by APS faculty, workshops by invited speakers internal and external to UNC, and presentations by second year PhD students.

MTSC 711. Materials Science First Year Seminar: Developing your plan for success. 1 Credits.
Students gain knowledge and learn key skill-sets outside of their technical course work needed for success in their PhD program and beyond. MTSC 711 follows on the topics learned in MTSC 710 to broaden the professional development of materials science PhD students. Students work to develop an Individual Development Plan, to understand the variety of career paths available for PhD-holders, and to practice research presentations.

MTSC 715. Visualization in the Sciences. 3 Credits.
Computational visualization applied in the natural sciences. For both computer science and natural science students. Available techniques and their characteristics, based on human perception, using software visualization toolkits. Project course.

MTSC 718. Seminar in Materials Science and Engineering. 1 Credits.
The Seminar in Materials Science and Engineering is a required 1-credit course for all Materials Science students in fall and spring semesters of years 2-5 of their doctoral program. The course tracks attendance at the required APS departmental seminars. Attending departmental seminars is an important component of training for MTSC doctoral students. Engaging in the seminars will help students gain a working knowledge of a variety of research areas important to their doctoral research.

MTSC 720. Materials Fabrication. 3 Credits.
Permission of the department. Introduction to materials fabrication and characterization techniques. Includes single crystal growth, thin film deposition, synthesis of quantum dots and nanotubes/nanowires, dielectric and electron emissive materials, nanocomposites, bioceramics, and energy storage materials.

MTSC 730. Statistical Thermodynamics. 3 Credits.
Permission of the instructor. Theory of ensembles and interactions in statistical mechanics. Classical and quantum statistics. Applications to simple systems: ideal gas, heat capacity of solids, blackbody radiation, phase transitions.

MTSC 735. Techniques in Materials Science. 3 Credits.
Permission of the department. Lecture and laboratory in materials analysis techniques, including microscopy, X-ray diffraction and fluorescence, magnetic resonance, thermal analysis, XPS, channeling and RBS, mechanical properties, optical spectroscopy.

MTSC 740. Advanced Biomaterials. 3 Credits.
Medical or dental implants or explants are highlighted from textbooks, scientific literature, and personal accounts.

MTSC 745. Chemistry of Biomaterials. 3 Credits.
Focuses on the chemistry and chemical structure-function relationships of soft synthetic biological materials. Topics include chemistry of proteins, peptides, nucleic acids, polysaccharides and lipids, and their incorporation into biomaterials and biosensors; enzymatic reactions; chemical modification of organic and inorganic surfaces using self-assembled monolayer chemistries, bioconjugation chemistries, synthesis of nanoparticles and their application as sensors, application of biological materials for logic operations, fundamentals of supramolecular chemistry.

MTSC 750. Kinetics, Diffusion, and Phase Transitions of Materials. 3 Credits.
Reaction kinetics in bulk materials. Mass transport, microstructural transformations, and phase transitions in condensed phases. Atom diffusion in solids. Spinodal decomposition.

MTSC 755. Polymer Processing and Properties. 3 Credits.
How does one process ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene into ultra-strong fibers or how would you design a polymer shape-memory actuator? Polymer chemistry is important but equally important is the way how polymers are processed. In this course we will discuss the relationship between polymer chemistry, processing and the final, after processing, properties. (We will discuss different processing methods that are currently in use), and which parameters play a role in controlling the final properties.

MTSC 760. Complex Fluids: Theory and Applications. 3 Credits.
Complex fluids are materials we encounter everyday such as pastes, gels, foams, blood, and tissue, yet ones that cannot be categorized within the traditional three states of matter (solid/gas/liquid). In this course, we introduce the main physical and mathematical concepts of the continuum mechanics of complex fluids and follow with microscopic approaches. The course is designed to focus on both theory and applications with hands-on activities and examples.

MTSC 765. Electronic Materials and Devices - Organic and Inorganic. 3 Credits.
The course introduces the electronic and optical processes in organic molecules and polymers that govern the behavior of practical organic optoelectronic devices. The course begins with an overview of fundamental science of electronic materials and devices. We then discuss their optoelectronic properties of organic molecules, including topics from photophysics, charge transport and injection. Emphasis will be equally placed on the use of both inorganic and organic electronic materials in organic electronic devices.

MTSC 780. Advanced Materials Science. 3 Credits.
This course covers the physical fundamentals of material science with an in-depth discussion of structure formation in soft and hard materials and how structure determines material mechanical, electrical, thermal, and optical properties. Topics include amorphous and crystal structures, defects, dislocation theory, thermodynamics and phase diagrams, diffusion, interfaces and microstructures, solidification, and theory of phase transformation. Special emphasis will be on the structure-property relationships of (bio)polymers, (nano)composites, and their structure property relationships.

MTSC 785. Introduction to Scientific Computing for Materials. 3 Credits.
An introduction to scientific computing key concepts and applying these concepts to solve problems, focusing on materials science and engineering. An overview of the mathematics basis of each numerical technique is followed with computer programming during and outside of class to apply those techniques. The course will require a final project to understand application software commonly used in materials science and engineering, including molecular dynamics (MD) software and in continuum modeling software.

MTSC 810. Device Physics and Electronic Properties of Solids. 3 Credits.
Survey of crystal structure, bandstructure, transport. Overview of FETs, heterostructures, light emission, dissipation, noise, integrated circuits, solar cells, and ceramics. Emphasis on physical sources of device behavior.

MTSC 820. Optical Properties of Solids. 3 Credits.
Reflection, waveguides, nonlinear optics, optical switching, photorefraction, optical storage. Optical coupling to electronic states, device applications, optical computing.

MTSC 830. Ion-Solid Interactions. 3 Credits.
Interatomic potentials, range distribution, radiation damage, annealing, secondary defects, analytical techniques, silicon-based devices, implantation in compound semiconductors, and buried layer synthesis. Ion implantation in metals, ceramics, polymers, and biomaterials.

MTSC 840. New Technologies and Device Architecture. 3 Credits.
Survey of novel and emerging device technologies. Resonant tunneling transistors, HEMT, opto-electronic devices and optical communication and computation, low-temperature electronic, hybrid superconductor devices.

MTSC 871. Solid State Physics. 3 Credits.
Topics considered include those of PHYS 573, but at a more advanced level, and in addition a detailed discussion of the interaction of waves (electromagnetic, elastic, and electron waves) with periodic structures, e.g., X-ray diffraction, phonons, band theory of metals and semiconductors.

MTSC 872. Solid State Physics II. 3 Credits.
Topics considered include quantum and thermal fluctuations, and thermodynamics of phase transitions in a broad variety of condensed matter systems, their kinetic theory and hydrodynamics, novel materials (two-dimensional electron gas, graphene, topological insulators and superconductors, Dirac/Weyl/nodal line semimetals), condensed matter applications of modern field-theoretical methods (path integral, renormalization group, holography).

MTSC 891. Special Topics in Material Science. 1-3 Credits.
Permission of the department. Current topics in materials science, including electronic and optical materials, polymers, and biomaterials.

MTSC 892. Special Topics in Material Sciences. 3 Credits.
Advanced specialty topics in material sciences for graduate students.

MTSC 893. Special Topics in Material Sciences. 3 Credits.
Advanced specialty topics in material sciences for graduate students.

MTSC 894. Special Topics in Material Sciences. 3 Credits.
Advanced specialty topics in material sciences for graduate students.

MTSC 895. Special Topics in Material Sciences. 3 Credits.
Advanced specialty topics in material sciences for graduate students.

MTSC 896. Special Topics in Material Sciences. 3 Credits.
Advanced specialty topics in material sciences for graduates.

MTSC 897. Special Topics in Material Sciences. 3 Credits.
Advanced specialty topics in material sciences for graduate students.

MTSC 898. Special Topics in Material Sciences. 3 Credits.
Advanced specialty topics in material sciences for graduate students.

MTSC 899. Special Topics in Material Sciences. 3 Credits.
Advanced specialty topics in material sciences for graduate students.

MTSC 989. Materials Science internship. 1-3 Credits.
An internship can be an important component of graduate training for students earning a Materials Science doctoral degree. The purpose of the internship is to expand research training and exposure to non-academic workplace environments. The student's faculty advisor and an onsite internship mentor will supervise the internship. Students work directly with their faculty advisor and their external contacts to identify internship opportunities and complete a learning agreement for the internship experience.

MTSC 992. Master's (Non-Thesis). 3 Credits.
No description available.

MTSC 993. Master's Research and Thesis. 3 Credits.
Permission of the department.

MTSC 994. Doctoral Research and Dissertation. 3 Credits.
Permission of the department.

