SWAH 112. Intensive Kiswahili 1-2. 6 Credits.
SWAH 112 covers two elementary courses: SWAH 401 - Elementary Kiswahili I and SWAH 402 - Elementary Kiswahili II. Whereas the course has a special place for structural aspects of the language, emphasis is particularly placed on the four language skills namely, speaking, writing, reading, and listening. Students cover a wide range of social, economic and political issues in East Africa.

SWAH 234. Intensive Kiswahili 3-4. 6 Credits.
The course covers the material in the SWAH 403 and 404 sequence in a single semester. Students may not receive credit for both SWAH 403 and SWAH 404 or SWAH 234 .

SWAH 401. Elementary Kiswahili I. 3 Credits.
This course is the first part of Elementary Swahili. Students will be introduced to the basic elements of Standard Swahili language and culture. At the end of this course, students are expected to reach Novice High according to the American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages (ACTFL) proficiency guidelines. In addition to Swahili language, students are exposed to topics on socioeconomic issues in East Africa, for example, greetings and social norms, nutrition and housing.

SWAH 402. Elementary Kiswahili II. 3 Credits.
This course is a continuation of Elementary Swahili I. It introduces more advanced grammar, emphasizes more fluency in speaking, reading, and writing in standard Swahili. The course develops students understanding of the Swahili culture and the East African people who use Swahili as the language of wider communication. Students develop an understanding and appreciation of languages and cultures other than their own.

SWAH 403. Intermediate Kiswahili III. 3 Credits.
This course is the first part of Intermediate Swahili. Students taking this course are assumed to have taken Swahili Elementary I & II where basic elements of Standard Swahili language and culture are introduced. The course is designed to further help students improve their fluency with emphasis on reading, writing, speaking and listening. Further, students make some comparisons between their cultures and the culture of Swahili speaking people and the East African people in general.

SWAH 404. Intermediate Kiswahili IV. 3 Credits.
SWAH 404 is designed to further help students improve their fluency with particular emphasis on reading, writing, speaking, and listening. At this level students discuss varied issues in East Africa including state and local government political and economic activities, kinship ties, transportation, and Swahili oral and written literature. Students are encouraged to use the knowledge acquired in their respective areas of specializations and personal experiences to make connections and comparisons.

SWAH 405. Advanced Kiswahili V. 3 Credits.
Advanced Swahili aims at developing fluency and proficiency in Swahili language and students' understanding of the social, economic, and political situation and activities of the East African people. Further, the course is designed to develop the students' ability to describe events, express opinions, and compare what they learn in class with personal experience and knowledge in their respective fields of specialization using structured arguments.

SWAH 406. Advanced Plus Kiswahili VI. 3 Credits.
This course reinforces and expands the grammatical, cultural, and communicative competence achieved in SWAH 405.

SWAH 408. Swahili Across the Curriculum Recitation. 1 Credits.
SWAH 408 explores contemporary health issues and other current affairs in Africa. The course is designed to help students understand the basic health issues in Africa as well as develop their language skills in reading, listening, comprehension and writing of Swahili language. Further, students will examine how language and culture impact beliefs and behaviors, and how together, these impact health interventions.

