SPAN 100. Elementary Spanish Review. 3 Credits.
Online course that includes essentials of elementary Spanish. Designed for students with previous study who place into first-semester Spanish. Upon successful completion students will enroll in SPAN 102. Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 100 and SPAN 101, 111, or 401.

SPAN 101. Elementary Spanish I. 3 Credits.
Introduces the essential elements of Spanish structure and vocabulary and cultural aspects of the Spanish-speaking world. Aural comprehension, speaking, reading, and writing are stressed. Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 101 and SPAN 100, 111, or 401.

SPAN 102. Elementary Spanish II. 3 Credits.
Continues the study of the essential elements of Spanish structure, vocabulary, and the cultural aspects of the Spanish-speaking world. Aural comprehension, speaking, reading, and writing. Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 102 and SPAN 105, 111, 401, or 404. Honors version available.

SPAN 105. Spanish for High Beginners. 4 Credits.
Accelerated course that covers SPAN 101 and 102 for students with previous study of Spanish. Aural comprehension, speaking, reading, and writing. Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 105 and SPAN 102, 111, 401, or 404.

SPAN 111. Modified Intensive Elementary Spanish I and II. 6 Credits.
Students must meet eligibility criteria. Class meets five days per week (MTWRF) for a total of six hours of instruction. Alternative teaching and learning strategies used to provide in-depth coverage of the material of the SPAN 101 and 102 sequence in a single semester. Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 111 and SPAN 100, 101, 102, 105, or 401. Permission of the instructor required.

SPAN 170. Reading América Now. Fourteen Spanish American Prose Fictions Written While You've Been Around. 3 Credits.
This course studies trends in thought and social practices in the Spanish speaking Americas through the most recent literature of the region. Topics may include colonialism, race, class, ethnicity, modernization, ecology, religion, gender, and popular culture. Texts and class are in English.

SPAN 203. Intermediate Spanish I. 3 Credits.
Develops language skills for communication. Review of elementary Spanish. Expands awareness of the Spanish-speaking world through readings and discussion of representative texts. Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 203 and SPAN 212, 402, or 405. Honors version available.

SPAN 204. Intermediate Spanish II. 3 Credits.
Continued development of language skills for communication. Considers finer points of linguistic structure. Expands awareness of Spanish culture through reading, inquiry, and class discussion. Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 204 and SPAN 212 or 402. Honors version available.

SPAN 205. Intermediate Spanish II for Heritage Learners. 3 Credits.
Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 204, and 205, and SPAN 212, or 402. This course is designed for the further development of language skills of Heritage Learners for better communication at the Intermediate level. Considers finer points of linguistic structure. Expands awareness of Spanish-speaking cultures through reading, inquiry, and class discussion.

SPAN 212. Modified Intensive Intermediate Spanish I. 6 Credits.
A continuation of SPAN 111. Class meets five days per week (MTWRF) for a total of six hours of instruction. In-depth recycling of SPAN 111 material while providing alternative teaching and learning strategies to cover the material of SPAN 203. Additional focus on modified reading and writing strategies, as well as opportunities for further cultural enrichment. Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 212 and SPAN 203. Permission of the instructor required.

SPAN 252. Argentine Jewish Culture. 3 Credits.
An introduction to the study of Jewish culture in Argentina, using different cultural products as an approach to understanding the process whereby Jews in Argentina moved from being poor immigrants to having prominent roles in the society. Restricted to students in the Buenos Aires summer study abroad program.

SPAN 253. Argentine Jewish Film. 3 Credits.
Students experience Buenos Aires through films. Studying the historical and social background through readings, films, and visits to the sites where Jewish life in Buenos Aires is taking place helps students make authentic connections between fiction and reality. Restricted to students in the Buenos Aires summer study abroad program.

SPAN 255. Conversation I. 3 Credits.
Introductory conversation. Builds oral proficiency and awareness of Hispanic culture. Emphasizes vocabulary and grammatical accuracy; writing activities support speaking. Not open to native speakers. Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 255 and SPAN 266. Honors version available.

SPAN 261. Advanced Spanish in Context. 3 Credits.
Fifth semester Spanish course required for all majors and minors that uses literature, film, and culture as a basis for reviewing grammatical concepts, developing writing competency, and improving overall communication skills. Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 261 and SPAN 267. Honors version available.

SPAN 266. Spanish Conversation for Heritage Learners. 3 Credits.
Spanish conversation for native speakers. Develops vocabulary and standard grammar skills, supports research in the history and lives of Hispanics in the United States. First in two-course sequence with SPAN 326. Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 266 and SPAN 255.

SPAN 267. Advanced Spanish in Context for Heritage Learners. 3 Credits.
Fifth semester Spanish course, designed specifically for Heritage learners, required for all majors and minors. Uses literature, film, and culture as a basis for reviewing grammatical concepts, developing writing competency, and improving overall communication skills. Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 267 and SPAN 261.

SPAN 270. Contemporary Spanish American Prose Fiction in Translation. 3 Credits.
Narrative works of Borges, Cortázar, García Márquez, and other contemporary Spanish American writers.

SPAN 275. Masterpieces of Spanish Literature in Translation. 3 Credits.
Representative Spanish authors from the Middle Ages to the present.

SPAN 280. Cervantes in English Translation. 3 Credits.
Study and discussion of Don Quijote with consideration of the Exemplary Novels and the background of Renaissance prose.

SPAN 292. Approaches to Spanish Language Teaching. 3 Credits.
Permission of the program director based on oral proficiency interview. Students must have advanced proficiency in Spanish. Students learn and implement fundamentals of foreign language instruction as peer tutors for elementary Spanish courses. Students may take course twice for credit. May not count toward the major or minor in Spanish.

SPAN 296. Course Correspondent Project in Spanish. 1 Credits.
Learning contract required. Students participating in UNC-led study abroad programs develop activities to supplement instruction in on-campus courses. Supervised by the on-campus instructor, students file reports on the sites, language, and culture of the country in which they are studying. Pass/Fail only. Permission of the instructor and the instructor's department.

SPAN 300. Grammar and Structure of Spanish. 3 Credits.
Advanced grammar designed to improve grammatical analysis, accuracy, and develop writing skills, using process and task-oriented approaches. Honors version available.

SPAN 301. Introduction to Literary and Cultural Analysis. 3 Credits.
Prepares students to formulate and communicate critical analyses of literary works in at least three genres chosen from theater, poetry, essay, narrative, and film while situating the readings within a cultural context. Students will improve Spanish language proficiency and appreciation of different world views through literature and culture. Previously offered as SPAN 260. Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 301 and SPAN 260 or 302. Honors version available.

SPAN 302. Literary and Cultural Analysis for Heritage Learners. 3 Credits.
Designed for heritage learners, prepares students to formulate and communicate critical analyses of literary works in at least three genres chosen from theater, poetry, essay, narrative, and film while situating the readings within a cultural context. Students will gain appreciation of different world views through literature and culture. Previously offered as SPAN 262; students may not receive credit for SPAN 302 and 260 or 301.

SPAN 308. LAC Recitation. 1 Credits.
A recitation or stand-alone section for LAC courses. May not count toward the major or minor in Spanish. Co-registration required unless a stand-alone LAC course. Contact instructor or view Notes to determine.

SPAN 320. Spanish for Business (First Semester). 3 Credits.
All-skills course with review of grammar and extensive writing and speaking practice. Vocabulary, readings, and activities geared toward the language of business professions in the context of the United States Hispanic community. Students may receive credit for only one of SPAN 320, 321, or 323.

SPAN 321. Spanish for the Medical Professions (First Semester). 3 Credits.
All-skills course with review of grammar, extensive writing and speaking practice. Vocabulary, readings, and activities geared toward the language of health care professions in the context of the United States Hispanic community. Students may receive credit for only one of SPAN 320, 321, or 323. Open only to students in the minor in Spanish for the professions.

SPAN 323. Spanish for the Legal Professions (First Semester). 3 Credits.
All-skills course with review of grammar and extensive writing and speaking. Vocabulary, readings, and activities geared toward the language of legal professions within the context of the Hispanic community.Students may receive credit for only one of SPAN 320, 321, or 323. Open only to students in the minor in Spanish for the professions.

SPAN 324. Spanish for the Legal Professions (Second Semester). 3 Credits.
Second semester, all-skills course with extensive writing and speaking practice, and grammar review. Vocabulary, readings, and activities geared toward the language of law professions in the context of the United States Hispanic community.

SPAN 325. Spanish for Business (Second Semester). 3 Credits.
Second semester, all-skills course with extensive writing and speaking practice, including grammar review. Vocabulary, readings, and activities geared toward the language of business professions in the context of the United States Hispanic community.

SPAN 328. Spanish for the Medical Professions (Second Semester). 3 Credits.
Second semester, all-skills course with extensive writing and speaking practice, including grammar review. Vocabulary, readings, and activities geared toward the language of health care professions in the context of the United States Hispanic community.

SPAN 329. Spanish for Professional and Community Engagement. 3 Credits.
Eighth-semester capstone course applying skills in Spanish language and cultures to professional and community contexts. Assignments include professional documents, community service work and projects, and a research project. Open only to students in the minor in Spanish for the professions.

SPAN 338. Trans-Atlantic Cultural Topics. 3 Credits.
Cultural history of Spain and Spanish America from the 16th century to the 21st century. Explores trans-Atlantic dimensions of Spanish and Spanish American cultures and the elements that have shaped those societies and their cultural traditions during the periods studied. Formerly offered as SPAN 331.

SPAN 340. Iberian Cultural Topics. 3 Credits.
This course studies trends in thought, art, film, music, and social practices in the Iberian context, and includes the study of Spain's historical nationalities. Topics may include nationalism, ethnicity, race, class, gender, migration, and popular culture.

SPAN 344. Latin@ American Cultural Topics. 3 Credits.
This course studies trends in thought, art, film, music, social practices, in the Spanish speaking Americas, including the United States. Topics may include colonialism, race, class, ethnicity, modernization, ecology, religion, gender, and popular culture.

SPAN 351. Spanish Interpretation I. 3 Credits.
Introduces the profession of interpreter: main interpretation models, history and theory, use of cognitive processes in developing skills, ethical standards, and best practices. Emphasis on expanding communicative and cultural competency while applying strategies in business, conference interpretation, education, health care, law, and law enforcement.

SPAN 352. Spanish Interpretation II. 3 Credits.
Refines interpretation skills through continued study of theory and best practices in varied professional contexts. Focuses on enhancing linguistic competence, sight-translation, and mnemonic strategies. Increases cultural sensitivity to issues interpreters face in business, conference interpretation, education, health care, the hospitality industry, law, and social services.

SPAN 360. Introduction to Hispanic Linguistics. 3 Credits.
Introduction to the linguistic study of sound, meaning, grammatical form, dialectal and sociolinguistic variation, with a particular focus on modern Spanish and the languages of Spain and Latin America. Previously offered as SPAN/LING 377.

SPAN 361. Hispanic Film. 3 Credits.
Study of contemporary cultural, historical, and aesthetic issues through narrative film, documentary, and other media from Latin America and Spain.

SPAN 363. Experiences of Disease and Health through Hispanic Literature and Culture. 3 Credits.
This courseseeks new perspectives on disease, literature, and culture in the Hispanic milieu. We will examine texts that present disease as theme, as aesthetic approach, as self-representation, or as metaphor in the Spanish-speaking world.

SPAN 369. Introduction to Translation. 3 Credits.
Theory and practice of translation through a dual approach of conceptual readings and classroom discussion and workshops in interdisciplinary fields. Emphasizes cultural role of the translator as mediator.

SPAN 370. Spanish Translation II. 3 Credits.
This course introduces students to literary translation: close reading and creative re-writing. Students work with memoir/essay, poetry/songs, theater/film, science-fiction, la novela rosa, true crime, graphic novels and comics, young adult, and children's literature by a diverse representation of artists. They learn marketplace skills: how to contact authors and assemble a submission ''package'' for publication. They also practice solving unique problems in determining priorities and compensating for translation loss, transferring figurative speech, cultural practices, and regionalisms.

SPAN 371. Studies in Spanish Literature. 3 Credits.
Study of the literatures of Spain centering on representative authors and texts from various literary movements, situated within their sociohistorical contexts.

SPAN 373. Studies in Latin American Literature. 3 Credits.
The literature of Spanish America from pre-Colombian times to the present. Representative authors and texts from various literary movements will be studied in their sociohistorical contexts.

SPAN 374. Mesoamerica through Its Native Literatures. 3 Credits.
Literature of the Mayas, Aztecs, and their neighbors from the Pre-Columbian period to the present. Historical, cultural, and religious information with discussions of the complexity and variation of intercultural ways of life. A comparative approach includes the aesthetic similarities, differences, and rhetorical strategies employed by indigenous writers.

SPAN 375. Spanish of the United States. 3 Credits.
Study of the Spanish found today in the United States, its history and characteristics, and the socioeconomic repercussions of its presence in contact with English.

SPAN 376. Spanish Phonetics and Phonology. 3 Credits.
Introduction to the description of sound systems with a focus on Spanish. Includes the study of the historical development of Spanish and its areal and social variation in Spain, Latin America, and the United States.

SPAN 378. Afro-Hispanic Language Contacts. 3 Credits.
Introduction to the study of Spanish in contact with African languages in the Iberian Peninsula and Latin America since the beginning of the slave trade. Linguistic analysis of literary texts from a variety of eras will assess how contact with the African diaspora has had a permanent impact on contemporary Spanish.

SPAN 379. Aesthetics of Violence in Latina/o American Fiction. 3 Credits.
The course explores the aesthetics of violence in contemporary Latina/o American fiction, paying attention to historical memory, rewritings of history, and the formation of otherness and marginality. Selections from Junot Díaz, Graciela Limón, Daniel Alarcón, Santiago Roncagliolo, Horacio Castellanos Moya, Roberto Bolaño, and Orfa Alarcón, among others.

SPAN 380. Studies in Spanish Drama. 3 Credits.
Spanish-language theater. Specific topics to be announced in advance by the instructor.

SPAN 381. Studies in Spanish and Spanish American Poetry. 3 Credits.
Specific topics to be announced in advance by the instructor.

SPAN 382. Studies in Spanish Prose. 3 Credits.
Selected works of prose from the Spanish canon organized by topic or theme.

SPAN 383. Medieval Spanish Literature. 3 Credits.
A survey of lyric poetry, drama, prose, and genres peculiar to the literature before 1500.

SPAN 384. Spanish Renaissance. 3 Credits.
A survey of poetry, drama, and prose of the 16th century.

SPAN 385. Contemporary Spanish American Prose Fiction. 3 Credits.
A study of the cultural, political, and aesthetic dimensions of the novels and short stories of selected contemporary Spanish American writers such as Borges, Cortázar, García Márquez, Puig, etc.

SPAN 386. Literature and Politics in Central America. 3 Credits.
The course will explore the most prominent authors of Central America (Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, and the United States) since the 1950s. Critical analysis of their poetry, short stories, novels, testimonial narratives, and films.

SPAN 387. Eroticism in Contemporary Latin American Literature. 3 Credits.
Literary manifestations of love, sexuality, and eroticism as social and political metaphors of contemporary Latin America. Selections from Sor Juana, Agustini, Darío, López Velarde, and Neruda with more emphasis on 20th-century works by writers like Donoso, Vargas Llosa, García Márquez, Poniatowska, Rivera Garza, and Montero.

SPAN 388. Narratives of the Mexican Revolution. 3 Credits.
Analysis of historical and literary writing, cinematic productions, and popular corridos produced in response to the Mexican Revolution. In addition to exposure to significant milestones in the development of Mexican literature, students will strengthen their Spanish reading ability and sharpen critical skills.

SPAN 389. Outside Cuba: Diasporic Literature and Culture. 3 Credits.
An overview of the literary and cultural production (essays, novels, short stories, plays, music, film) of Cubans living in the diaspora after the Cuban revolution.

SPAN 394. Creative Writing in Spanish. 3 Credits.
This fiction workshop allows students to engage in individual and collaborative creative expression, exploration, and production. Throughout the semester, students analyze literary works to acquire the necessary tools to create their own short stories in Spanish, while mastering certain techniques and methods related to fiction. The course also integrates cultural events outside of the classroom such as guest lectures, book presentations, or literary workshops as part of class participation.

SPAN 395. Research for Advanced Students. 1-3 Credits.
Required preparation, two major-level courses or permission of the instructor. Research project for advanced students on a topic agreed upon by the student and faculty member.

SPAN 397. Undergraduate Seminar in Language and Linguistics. 3 Credits.
Seminar on a previously announced topic.

SPAN 398. Undergraduate Seminar in Literature and Culture. 3 Credits.
Variable topics seminar.

SPAN 401. Beginning Accelerated Spanish. 3 Credits.
Covers levels one and two of the basic language sequence in one semester. Designed for highly motivated undergraduate/graduate language learners, especially those who have experienced success with learning another language. Intensive approach to developing all skills but with an emphasis on speaking. Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 401 and SPAN 101, 102, 105 or 111.

SPAN 402. Intermediate Accelerated Spanish. 3 Credits.
A continuation of SPAN 401, covers levels three and four in one semester. Develops all skills, with increasing emphasis on reading, writing, and cultural analysis. Designed for highly motivated undergraduate/graduate language learners, especially those who have experienced success with learning another language. Prepares students for advanced courses. Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 402 and SPAN 203, SPAN 204 or SPAN 212.

SPAN 404. Elementary Spanish for Health Professionals. 3 Credits.
Distance course requiring access to the Internet. Focuses on communication within the context of Latino/a immigrant culture in health care settings. Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 404 and SPAN 102 or 105.

SPAN 405. Intermediate Spanish for Health Care Professionals. 3 Credits.
Distance course requiring access to the Internet. Focuses on improving communication within the context of Latino/a immigrant culture in health care settings. This course is equivalent to SPAN 203 (Intermediate Spanish I) and therefore fulfills the foreign language requirement. Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 405 and SPAN 203.

SPAN 414. Languages of Spain I. 3 Credits.
Study of the language and culture of one of the languages of Spain other than Spanish. Selection will vary according to term: Catalan, Euskera (Basque), Galician.

SPAN 415. Languages of Spain II. 3 Credits.
Continuation of the study of the language and culture of one of the languages of Spain other than Spanish. Selection will vary according to term: Catalan, Euskera, Galician.

SPAN 416. Languages of the Americas I. 3 Credits.
Study of the language and culture of one of the languages of Spanish America other than Spanish. Selection will vary according to term: Mayan, Nahuatl, Quechua, Guarani.

SPAN 417. Languages of the Americas II. 3 Credits.
Continuation of the study of the language and culture of one of the languages of Spanish America other than Spanish. Selection will vary according to term: Mayan, Nahuatl, Quechua, Guarani.

SPAN 601. Spanish for Reading. 3 Credits.
For students with no background in Spanish or those needing a review of grammatical structures and vocabulary in preparation for the reading knowledge exam for graduate students (FLPA).

SPAN 613. Colonial and 19th-Century Spanish American Literature. 3 Credits.
Advanced survey of literary works from 16th- through 19th-century Spanish America, with emphasis on their rhetorical foundations and historical, political, and aesthetic connections.

SPAN 614. Modernist and Contemporary Spanish American Literature. 3 Credits.
Advanced survey of Spanish American works from the 1880s through the present, with emphasis on their rhetorical foundations and historical, cultural, political, and aesthetic connections.

SPAN 617. Cervantes and the Quijote. 3 Credits.
Close reading of Cervantes' Quijote and selected Novelas ejemplares, with consideration of the background of Renaissance prose (romance of chivalry, pastoral, and sentimental novel) in relation to 16th-century historiography.

SPAN 620. Women in Hispanic Literature. 3 Credits.
The image of woman in 16th- and 17th-century Hispanic literature. A study of texts by Spanish and Spanish American authors. Readings in Spanish or in English translation. Lectures in English.

SPAN 621. Literary and Cultural History of the Spanish Language. 3 Credits.
A historical study of the cultural and societal factors that influence the evolution of the Spanish language and its literature, from its first written documents in the ninth century to literatures written in Spanglish today.

SPAN 625. Indigenous Literatures and Cultures of the Américas. 3 Credits.
Panoramic view of indigenous literatures in the Américas through a study of a variety of indigenous textual production including chronicles, manifestos, novels, testimonial narratives, short stories, poetry, artistic production, and film.

SPAN 630. Literature and the Visual Arts in Spain. 3 Credits.
Study of the literature of the Iberian Peninsula and developments in the visual arts from the Middle Ages to the early 20th century.

SPAN 640. Topics in Hispanic Jewish Studies. 3 Credits.
This seminar examines selected topics in modern Hispanic Jewish culture, focusing on literature and film. Possible thematic approaches include identity, diaspora, migration, memory, statehood, life writing, and interreligious relations.

SPAN 650. The Spanish Comedia of the Golden Age. 3 Credits.
A comprehensive study of the Golden Age Spanish theater from its Renaissance beginnings through the 17th century.

SPAN 661. Film Studies: Iberia and the Americas. 3 Credits.
Advanced study of the history and theory of film produced in the Spanish- and Portuguese-speaking worlds for beginning graduate students and advanced undergraduates. Readings in film history and theory will build students' knowledge in cultural, political, and aesthetic issues. Class discussions emphasize critical and analytical thought.

SPAN 676. Advanced Spanish Phonology. 3 Credits.
Topics in Spanish phonology from a range of theoretical perspectives. Autosegmental theory, optimality theory (OT), syllable structure, stress and accent, and the interaction of phonology and morphology.

SPAN 677. Spanish Syntax. 3 Credits.
Why do we say in Spanish "me gusta" ("to me pleases") for "I like it"? Syntax studies how words associate in larger structures. This class provides the tools to understand the forms of different varieties of Spanish.

SPAN 678. History of the Spanish Language. 3 Credits.
SPAN 376 desirable. A theoretical study of the evolution of Spanish from classical and spoken Latin, focusing on phonological, morphological, and syntactic phenomena. Intended for linguistics majors.

SPAN 679. Spanish Pragmatics. 3 Credits.
This course is an introduction to the study of meaning and language use, with a focus on Spanish. Includes discussion of the classical texts in the field as well as analysis of a variety of data (corpora, fieldwork, and experimental materials).

SPAN 680. First- and Second-Language Acquisition of Spanish. 3 Credits.
Why and how do children learn language so easily, and why is it so difficult for adults to learn a second language? This course examines these and related questions in the light of current theories of first and second language acquisition, with a focus on Spanish.

SPAN 681. Spanish Semantics. 3 Credits.
This course is an upper undergraduate/graduate-level introduction to the study of the meaning of words and sentences, with a focus on Spanish. It covers the following topics: truth-conditional theories of meaning, modality, quantification, reference, tense and aspect, Aktionsart. The course also addresses cross-linguistic data collection, e.g., field work and experimental methods.

SPAN 682. Spanish Sociolinguistics. 3 Credits.
Interdisciplinary approach to studying the Spanish language as a social and cultural phenomenon. Explores the relationship between language and culture, communicative competence and pragmatics, social and linguistic factors in language variation and change, attitudes toward language and language choice, linguistic prejudice and language myths, and language and identity.

SPAN 683. Guaraní Linguistics. 3 Credits.
Guaraní, an official language of Paraguay, is the only indigenous language in the Americas (and possibly in the world) that is spoken natively by a nonindigenous majority. This seminar explores the linguistics of Guaraní: its typology, history, grammar, and sociolinguistics.

SPAN 684. Spanish Dialectology and Variation. 3 Credits.
Linguistic analysis of variation within the Spanish-speaking world. Special attention paid to contact situations between Spanish and other languages.

SPAN 691H. Honors Thesis. 3 Credits.
Required of students reading for honors. Preparation of an essay under the direction of a faculty member. Topic to be approved by thesis director in consultation with honors advisor.

SPAN 692H. Honors Thesis in Spanish. 3 Credits.
Restricted to senior honors candidates. Second semester of senior honors thesis. Thesis preparation under the direction of a departmental faculty member.

SPAN 701. Beginnings of Castilian Hegemony to 1369. 3 Credits.
Early medieval romance period (11th century to 1369). The establishment of Castilian hegemony studied through a variety of texts (chronicles, miracles, collections of law and exempla, fueros, epic and lyric poems).

SPAN 702. The Trastamara Dynasty: 1369 to 1504/1516. 3 Credits.
The final shaping of Castile, the beginning of nationhood, and American expansion studied through a variety of texts (chronicles, books of chivalry, lyric and narrative poems, sentimental novels, and travel narratives).

SPAN 709. Nonfiction Prose of the 16th and 17th Centuries. 3 Credits.
An examination of the histories, chronicles, and other documents written in Spain and Spanish American, with special emphasis on the literature of exploration.

SPAN 710. 19th-Century Spanish Novel. 3 Credits.
A study of the development of romanticism, costumbrismo, realism, and naturalism, principally through the novels of Gil y Carrasco, Pereda, Valera, Pérez Galdós, Pardo Bazán, Clarín, and Blasco Ibañez. .

SPAN 711. The Modern Spanish Novel. 3 Credits.
Trends in modern Spanish narrative fiction from 1898 to 1975. Modernism, Civil War, and dictatorship.

SPAN 712. The Contemporary Spanish Novel. 3 Credits.
Trends in contemporary Spanish narrative from 1975 to the present. Post-totalitarian fiction, postmodernism, and minority literatures.

SPAN 713. War, History, and Society in Iberian Narrative and Film. 3 Credits.
Focuses on the narrative production of Iberian literature in Castilian, Catalan, Basque, and Galician since 1936, with their corresponding film adaptations when available. Begins with the end of the Spanish Civil War, continuing with the years of the Francoist dictatorship and the transition to democracy, and concludes with Spain today.

SPAN 714. Golden Age Poetry. 3 Credits.
Selected poetic works from Garcilaso through Quevedo.

SPAN 715. Modern and Contemporary Spanish Poetry. 3 Credits.
Study of Spanish poetry from the 19th to the 21st centuries in terms of aesthetics and literary movements including romanticism, modernism, and postmodernism.

SPAN 716. Contemporary Lyric Poetry. 3 Credits.
Major poets from the Generation of 1927 to the present.

SPAN 725. Golden Age Prose. 3 Credits.
The major prose works of the Golden Age, excluding those of Cervantes.

SPAN 737. Topics in Contemporary Literary and Cultural Theory. 3 Credits.
Study of major topics in modern theory such as identities, time, space, history, nation, language, text, and image, from modernity to post-modernity and beyond.

SPAN 738. Topics in the Intellectual History of Spain. 3 Credits.
Historical concepts such as power, ideology, class, culture, identity, attitude, race, perception, and methods as they developed among elite and nonelite groups of the 16th and 17th century Spanish society. Focuses on evolution of ideas, sciences, arts, techniques, and cultural expression of social movements - nationalism, colonialism, racism - and historical reflection.

SPAN 741. The Essay and Short Story. 3 Credits.
Theory and practice of the essay and short story. Topics include masters of the Spanish American and international essay and short story, the evolution of both genres, gender, cultural studies.

SPAN 742. Poiesis in Spanish America. 3 Credits.
Theories and practices of literary creation across genres and periods.

SPAN 743. Topics in Spanish American Performance Studies. 3 Credits.
A thorough grounding in contemporary plays in the Spanish-speaking Americas. Topics include performing class, ethnicity, and gender; parody; staging nations; politics of metatheatre; postmodern agency; and the performance of everyday life.

SPAN 744. The Aesthetics of the Baroque in Spanish American Literature. 3 Credits.
The origin, development, and persistence of a baroque aesthetic in Spanish American literature through an examination of diverse theories of baroque and close readings of representative texts.

SPAN 745. The Vanguards. 3 Credits.
The theory and practice of innovative writing, especially since the 19th century. Topics include the historical Spanish American and Anglo-European vanguards, experimental literature, modernismo's literary rebellion, gender, and cultural studies.

SPAN 746. The Novel in Spanish America. 3 Credits.
The novel to 1960. The course examines romanticism, realism, naturalism, modernism, and the new national literatures through such authors as Avellaneda, Blest Gana, Silva, Asturias, Carpentier, Rulfo, Bombal, and Vargas Llosa.

SPAN 747. The Contemporary Spanish American Novel. 3 Credits.
The theory and practice of the novel since the 1960s. Topics include the Spanish American "Boom" of the 60s and 70s, major international trends and writers, gender, cultural studies.

SPAN 750. Enlightenment and Romanticism in Spain. 3 Credits.
Readings from 18th and 19th-century Spanish authors in various genres.

SPAN 834. Seminar in Peninsular Spanish Literature and Culture. 3 Credits.
Topic determined by instructor and announced in advance.

SPAN 835. Seminar in Spanish American Literature. 3 Credits.
Topic determined by instructor and announced in advance.

SPAN 836. Seminar Spanish/Spanish American Transatlantic Topics. 3 Credits.
Topic determined by instructor and announced in advance.

SPAN 840. Special Readings. 1-15 Credits.
Doctoral students only.

SPAN 992. Master's (Non-Thesis). 3 Credits.
No description available.

SPAN 993. Master's Research and Thesis. 3 Credits.
No description available.

SPAN 994. Doctoral Research and Dissertation. 3 Credits.
No description available.

