AMST 53. First-Year Seminar: The Family and Social Change in America. 3 Credits.
This course uses changes in the American family over the past century as a way of understanding larger processes of social change. Honors version available.

AMST 54. First-Year Seminar: The Indians' New Worlds: Southeastern Histories from 1200 to 1800. 3 Credits.
This course uses archaeological and historical scholarship to consider the histories of the Southern Indians from the Mississippian period to the end of the 18th century.

AMST 55. First-Year Seminar: Birth and Death in the United States. 3 Credits.
This course explores birth and death as essential human rites of passage that are invested with significance by changing and diverse American historical, cultural, ethnic, and ethical contexts. Honors version available.

AMST 59. First-Year Seminar: American Indian Art in the 20th Century. 3 Credits.
This course examines 20th-century American Indian art within the context of critical topics in the field such as sovereignty, colonialism, modernity, modernism, gender, and representation.

AMST 60. First-Year Seminar: American Indians in History, Law, and Literature. 3 Credits.
This research seminar provides a grounding in American Indian law, history, and literature. Students will conduct research for presentation on Wikipedia.

AMST 62. First-Year Seminar: Mobility, Roads, NASCAR, and Southern Culture. 3 Credits.
This seminar looks at the culture, history, memories, and meanings of mobility for a diverse range of people in southern cultures. In particular, students will read and discuss books and articles by scholars on roads, cars, access, and diverse southern cultures.

AMST 65. First-Year Seminar: North Carolina Black Feminisms. 3 Credits.
Students will develop their own sense of Black feminist thought and practice through exploring the lives and works of several key Black feminist figures with ties to North Carolina: Harriet Jacobs, Anna Julia Cooper, Pauli Murray, Ella Baker, Nina Simone, Jaki Shelton Green, and Alexis Pauline Gumbs. Students will put these figures in context of Black feminist thought and will do hands-on activities that reflect Black feminist practices including poetry, dance, and painting.

AMST 70. First-Year Seminar: Language in the U.S.A. 3 Credits.
The linguistic landscape of the United States in historical and contemporary perspective: American English dialects, language maintenance and shift among Native American and immigrant groups, language politics and policy.

AMST 75. First-Year Seminar: Food and the Media. 3 Credits.
This course examines how food representations establish, reproduce, and also counter cultural and social assumptions about individuals and communities. We will consider the impact of the history of advertising in America on our national food habits and practices, the issue of authenticity in food and its intersection with the American immigrant food experience, the complicated gender politics of resistance baking movements, and the literary voices that shape ideas about American food politics and ethics.

AMST 89. First Year Seminar: Special Topics. 3 Credits.
Special topics course. Content will vary each semester. Honors version available.

AMST 101. This Place Called "America". 3 Credits.
Interdisciplinary examination of two centuries of American culture, focusing on moments of change and transformation.

AMST 102. Myth and History in American Memory. 3 Credits.
Examines the role of memory in constructing historical meaning and in imagining the boundaries of American cultural communities. Explores popular rituals, artifacts, monuments, and public performances. Previously offered as AMST 384.

AMST 110. Introduction to the Cultures and Histories of Native North America. 3 Credits.
An interdisciplinary introduction to Native American history and studies. The course uses history, literature, art, and cultural studies to study the Native American experience.

AMST 175. Introduction to Food Studies: From Science to Society. 3 Credits.
Introduction to food studies covering a variety of topics including how food was consumed over history, land use and aquaculture, food in the arts, food and culture in the American South, food politics, and nutrition science. Previously offered as ANTH 175.

AMST 201. Literary Approaches to American Studies. 3 Credits.
A study of interdisciplinary methods and the concept of American Studies with an emphasis on the historical context for literary texts.

AMST 202. Historical Approaches to American Studies. 3 Credits.
A study of interdisciplinary methods and the concept of American studies with an emphasis on historical and cultural analysis.

AMST 203. Approaches to American Indian Studies. 3 Credits.
Introduces students to the disciplines comprising American Indian studies and teaches them how to integrate disciplines for a more complete understanding of the experiences of American Indian peoples.

AMST 210. This Place Called "The South". 3 Credits.
An examination of both the mythical and real American South and its diverse peoples through the study of the region's archaeological, geographical, and environmental history integrated with the study of the region's sociology and its economic, political, intellectual, and religious history.

AMST 211. Approaches to Southern Studies: The Literary and Cultural Worlds of the American South. 3 Credits.
An examination of Southern cultural identity, literary imagination, and sense of place with an emphasis on the fiction, folklore, foodways, art, architecture, music, and material culture of the American South.

AMST 220. On the Question of the Animal: Contemporary Animal Studies. 3 Credits.
This course is an introduction to "animal studies," through animal rights, animal welfare, food studies, and the human/animal distinction in philosophical inquiry. We will read work from dog and horse trainers, and explore the history of the American racetrack. This course builds a moral and ethical reasoning skill set.

AMST 222. The Death Penalty in American History. 3 Credits.
This course explores the history of the death penalty in America between the colonial era and the present.

AMST 225. Comedy and Ethics. 3 Credits.
This course explores the historical, sociocultural, and legal significance of 20th- and 21st-century comedy in the United States. We will consider comedy as public voice; examine how humor constructs and disrupts American identities; and discuss the ethics of the creative process, performance, and reception. Honors version available.

AMST 225L. The Practice of Stand Up Comedy. 1 Credits.
Students will learn and practice the art of stand up comedy via structured assignments, group workshops, live performances and conversations that build on topics introduced in AMST 225. Class size is limited to 15 students. Instructor permission required.

AMST 231. Native American History: The East. 3 Credits.
Covers the histories of American Indians east of the Mississippi River and before 1840. The approach is ethnohistorical.

AMST 233. Native American History: The West. 3 Credits.
Deals with the histories of Native Americans living west of the Mississippi River. It begins in the pre-Columbian past and extends to the end of the 19th century.

AMST 234. Native American Tribal Studies. 3 Credits.
This course introduces students to a tribally specific body of knowledge. The tribal focus of the course and the instructor change from term to term. Honors version available.

AMST 235. Native America in the 20th Century. 3 Credits.
This course deals with the political, economic, social, and cultural issues important to 20th-century Native Americans as they attempt to preserve tribalism in the modern world.

AMST 246. Indigenous Storytelling: Oral, Written, and Visual Literatures of Native America. 3 Credits.
Offers a historically, politically, and culturally contextualized examination of Native America through oral, written, and visual storytelling. Covering a wide range of genres, including oral narratives, novels, and visual arts, this introductory course showcases the fluidity of Indigenous artistic forms and their continuing centrality in Native America.

AMST 248. Intersectionality: Race, Gender, Sexuality, and Social Justice. 3 Credits.
The first goal of this super course is to give students real tools for how to address multiple modes of difference and identity formations like race, gender, class, and sexuality.

AMST 251. The Jewish American Experience. 3 Credits.
A survey of the Jewish experience in the United States from colonial times to the present, that examines connections and disjunctures with the experiences of Jews in the Americas more broadly. Topics include the social patterns and communal constructs of the various Jewish immigrations; modes of political engagement; and the diverse cultural practices through which American Jews have shaped their identities.

AMST 252. Muslim American Literatures and Cultures. 3 Credits.
This course examines the diversity of Muslims in America and the variety of creative expression created throughout this long history of transcultural involvement.

AMST 253. A Social History of Jewish Women in America. 3 Credits.
This course examines the history and culture of Jewish women in America from their arrival in New Amsterdam in 1654 to the present and explores how gender shaped this journey.

AMST 255. Difference and Power in American Culture(s). 3 Credits.
This course examines a broad range of topics (race, class, sexuality, gender, and/or disability for example) that focus on power in the United States. We will move across a range of interdisciplinary sources and historical moments to understand who and what we are to one another in our national landscape.

AMST 256. Anti-'50s: Voices of a Counter Decade. 3 Credits.
We remember the 1950s as a period of relative tranquility, happiness, optimism, and contentment. This course will consider a handful of countertexts: voices from literature, politics, and mass culture of the 1950s that for one or another reason found life in the postwar world repressive, empty, frightening, or insane and predicted the social and cultural revolutions that marked the decade that followed.

AMST 257. Melville: Culture and Criticism. 3 Credits.
Investigates the significance of Herman Melville as a representative 19th-century American author. Includes issues of biography, historical context, changing reception, cultural iconography, and the politics of the literary marketplace.

AMST 258. Captivity and American Cultural Definition. 3 Credits.
Examines how representations of captivity and bondage in American expression worked to construct and transform communal categories of religion, race, class, gender, and nation.

AMST 259. Tobacco and America. 3 Credits.
Explores the significance of tobacco from Native American ceremony to the Southern economy by focusing on changing attitudes toward land use, leisure, social style, public health, litigation, and global capitalism.

AMST 265. The Black Interior. 3 Credits.
What aesthetics and politics do Black people produce when their gaze is turned inward? This course examines representations of the inner lives of African American people in media such as film, visual art, and music to understand the Black private sphere. This survey course is intended for intermediate level undergraduate students.

AMST 268. American Cinema and American Culture. 3 Credits.
Examines the relationship between cinema and culture in America with a focus on the ways cinema has been experienced in American communities since 1896.

AMST 269. Mating and Marriage in America. 3 Credits.
Interdisciplinary examination of the married condition from colonial times to the present. Themes include courtship and romance, marital power and the egalitarian ideal, challenges to monogamy.

AMST 275. Food and American Culture. 3 Credits.
In this course, we will explore the ways in which food shapes the politics and ethics of individuals and communities and is an increasingly important marker of social and cultural identities. Lessons for this course focus on the symbolic functions of food in the construction of personal, cultural, political, and community identity.

AMST 276. Food and American Culture: What We Eat and Who We Are. 3 Credits.
This course will take students on a journey through some of the key moments in "American" food studies and its beginnings across a range of disciplinary homes: the study of nutrition and food security; the study of food systems and the vocabularies that subtend them.

AMST 277. America's Role in the Global Environment. 3 Credits.
Using an interdisciplinary approach, this course explores the historical role and implications for the US and other nations with respect to transnational environmental issues including climate change, sustainability, and migration.

AMST 278. Crimes and Punishments. 3 Credits.
This course explores the social history and culture of crime, deviant behavior, and punishment in America between the pre-revolutionary period and today. It traces the history of longstanding institutions; examines elements of American history from a criminal justice perspective; and seeks historical origins and continuities for contemporary problems.

AMST 284. Visual Culture. 3 Credits.
This course investigates how we make and signify meaning through images, ranging from art to advertising to graffiti, and provides the critical tools to understand the visual worlds we inhabit.

AMST 287. Introduction to American Legal Education. 3 Credits.
Introduces students to how legal education is conducted in the United States by mimicking the "1L" experience, or first year in law school. It is broken into units that represent classes every law school teaches in the first year: contracts, property, torts, criminal law, civil procedure, and constitutional law.

AMST 289. Jewish American Literature and Culture. 3 Credits.
This course examines Jewish American literary works in various genres from the nineteenth century to the present day. Together, we will interpret and critique the aesthetic and moral "worldview" of each work while simultaneously situating these works in the historical and cultural contexts in which they were created.

AMST 290. Topics in American Studies. 3 Credits.
Special topics in American studies.

AMST 291. Ethics and American Studies. 3 Credits.
An interdisciplinary seminar in American studies addressing ethical issues in the United States.

AMST 292. Historical Seminar in American Studies. 3 Credits.
Topics in American history in American studies. Honors version available.

AMST 294. American Studies Seminar on Aesthetic Perspective. 3 Credits.
Topics in arts and literature from the perspective of American studies.

AMST 315. Privacy and Surveillance in America. 3 Credits.
This course explores crucial challenges to privacy by changing technological, governmental, and corporate practices of surveillance. We will explore how technological and biometric tools are employed to capitalize upon and control populations. We will examine constitutional rights and privacy laws as well as practices and protections that can enable us to become more ethical citizens in the digital age.

AMST 317. Adoption in America. 3 Credits.
An interdisciplinary approach to the history of adoption and related practices in the United States, employing the provisions society has made for the welfare of children deemed to be orphans as a powerful lens into changing values and attitudes toward childhood, race, class, gender, reproduction, parenthood, and family.

AMST 320. Critical Issues and Theories in American Studies. 3 Credits.
This course will move through prevalent critical theories in American Studies. Students will come away with advanced understanding of theoretical concepts and be able to ascertain both the advantages and pitfalls of their landscapes. Students will become familiar with critical race (postcoloniality and settler-colonialism, for example), feminist, "queer" theories, historical materialism, new materialism, political economy, just to name a few. Previously offered as AMST 420.

AMST 325. Encountering Art in the Unexpected: Borderlands and Story in Contemporary American Visual Art. 3 Credits.
This course focuses on the contemporary art and social change movement. We will learn how to use site-specific and performative art interventions to make invisible borders, boundaries, and other issues visible and innovatively to create engaged and sustained dialogue.

AMST 330. del norte a norte: An American Songbook. 3 Credits.
Through the examination of a variety of song cultures and its artistic and cultural expressions, we explore the interdisciplinary methods of American studies and contemporary approaches to the study of American society and cultures, with an emphasis on musical performance. In partnership with Carolina Performing Arts, students will learn about the sociocultural, aesthetic, and critical components of song cultures associated with social change, exploring identity, diversity, privilege, cultures, and justice while participating in community service.

AMST 336. Native Americans in Film. 3 Credits.
This course is about Hollywood's portrayal of Indians in film, how Indian films have depicted Native American history, and why the filmic representation of Indians has changed over time.

AMST 337. American Indian Activism since 1887: Beyond Red Power. 3 Credits.
This course seeks to understand how American Indian individuals and communities survived a century that began with predictions of their disappearance. To answer that question, we take a broad view of politics and activism, exploring everything from the radical protest to art and everyday forms of resistance.

AMST 338. American Indian Novel. 3 Credits.
This course examines this art form's development by indigenous writers as a mode of storytelling that explores the continuing effects of settler colonialism upon indigenous peoples and foregrounds indigenous notions of land, culture, and community.

AMST 339. The Long 1960s in Native America. 3 Credits.
An interdisciplinary exploration of Native America during the "long 1960s" (1954-1973), this course focuses on how American Indian experiences intersected with and diverged from those of non-native groups via topics such as the youth movement, women's rights, nationalism, civil rights, radical protest, and creative expression.

AMST 340. American Indian Art and Material Culture through Interdisciplinary Perspectives. 3 Credits.
Analyzes material culture created by Native artists throughout the United States and portions of Canada. Examines the role of art and artists and how material culture is studied and displayed. Students study objects, texts, and images, exploring mediums such as painting, sculpture, basket making, beadwork, and photography.

AMST 341. Digital Native America. 3 Credits.
This is a project-based course that explores settler colonial appropriations of American Indian knowledge. Students then use new technologies as a means of engaging in the digital re-representation and return of this knowledge. Instructor and topics vary.

AMST 345. Issues in the Indigenous World. 3 Credits.
This course will explore the Indigenous world in various settler colonial contexts. We will come to understand the communities who claim Indigenous status, commonalities among Indigenous peoples, and differences that create important distinctions in places like the U.S. Australia, Canada, and New Zealand. We will also learn how Indigenous peoples around the world continue to respond to various aspects of colonialism, including but not limited to law and policy, representation, art, and human rights.

AMST 352. The Asian American Experience. 3 Credits.
The course addresses the history and sociology of Asian immigration and experience in the United States, as well as the formation of diasporic identities among Asian Americans.

AMST 353. Southeast Asian North Carolina. 3 Credits.
Drawing from Asian American Studies and Asian Studies, the course explores the political histories and lived experiences of Southeast Asians and Southeast Asian Americans in North Carolina. Students will consider issues relevant to NC Southeast Asian communities such as food justice, labor organizing, mental health support, anti-racism work, transnational connections, etc. Course materials will include both written academic works and first-person narrative accounts from local community members.

AMST 354. Asian American Graphic Form. 3 Credits.
This course will survey Asian American graphic form: written and/or drawn works from the late 1900s to present. We will begin by considering orientalism in both American popular culture and modernist aesthetics. We will then examine works by Asian American writers and artists in a range of mediums including graphic memoir and novels, comics, animation, manga and anime, illustrated books, zines, textual art, and visual poetry.

AMST 365. Women and Detective Fiction: From Miss Violet Strange to Veronica Mars. 3 Credits.
Traces the origins of detective fiction and major developments in the history of the genre with a focus on women authors and protagonists. Examines literary texts including fiction and film, with close attention to historical and social contexts and to theoretical arguments relating to popular fiction, genre studies, and gender.

AMST 371. LGTBQ Film and Fiction from 1950 to the Present. 3 Credits.
An interdisciplinary seminar that explores stylistic choices and representational modes available to LGTBQ artists in the United States since 1950. We will relate shifts in cinematic and literary representations and aesthetic strategies to developments in political, social, and economic life.

AMST 375. Critical Issues in Contemporary Food Studies. 3 Credits.
Students explore, analyze, and research the politics and ethics of major food debates in contemporary American culture, including the history of the National School Lunch program, the proposed Universal Basic Income's effect on the restaurant business, and public food/body shaming. Studying, discussing in depth, and forming their own opinions on these debates allows students to apprehend the myriad ways in which food is embedded in local, regional, national, and global narratives and identities. Restricted to Food Studies Minors and American Studies majors.

AMST 390. Seminar in American Studies. 3 Credits.
Seminar in American studies topics with a focus on historical inquiry from interdisciplinary angles.

AMST 392. Radical Communities in Twentieth Century American Religious History. 3 Credits.
How the language, ideas, and cultural products of religious outsiders responded to and influenced mainstream ideas about what American religious communities could and should look like in terms of gender, race, economics, and faith-based practices.

AMST 396. Independent Study in American Studies. 3 Credits.
Permission of the department. Directed reading under the supervision of a faculty member.

AMST 398. Service Learning in America. 3 Credits.
Explores history and theory of volunteerism and service learning in America. Includes a weekly academic seminar and placement in a service learning project.

AMST 410. Senior Seminar in Southern Studies. 3 Credits.
We will engage such topics as race, immigration, cultural tourism, and memory to consider conceptions of the South. Students will research a subject they find compelling and write a 20- to 25-page paper.

AMST 439. Meaning and Makers: Indigenous Artists and the Marketplace. 3 Credits.
This course examines how indigenous artists have negotiated, shaped, and pursued markets and venues of display ranging from "fine" art markets, galleries, and museums to popular markets associated with tourism.

AMST 440. American Indian Poetry. 3 Credits.
This course explores the relation of American Indian poetry and music in English to the history and culture of indigenous communities and their relation to the United States.

AMST 475. Documenting Communities. 3 Credits.
Covers the definition and documentation of communities within North Carolina through research, study, and field work of communities. Each student produces a documentary on a specific community. Previously offered as AMST 275. Honors version available.

AMST 483. Seeing the USA: The Film Director as Public Intellectual. 3 Credits.
Examines the ways in which visual works - paintings, photographs, sculpture, architecture, film, advertising, and other images - communicate the values of American culture and raise questions about American experiences.

AMST 486. The Jewish South: Race, Region, and Religion. 3 Credits.
This course explores ethnicity in the South and focuses on the history and culture of Jewish Southerners from their arrival in the Carolinas in the 17th century to the present day.

AMST 487. Early American Architecture and Material Life. 3 Credits.
This course explores, through lecture and discussion, the experiences of everyday life from 1600 through the early 19th century, drawing on the evidence of architecture, landscape, images, and objects.

AMST 489. Writing Material Culture. 3 Credits.
A reading seminar that examines multiple critical perspectives that shape the reception and interpretation of objects, with a particular emphasis on things in American life.

AMST 493. Internship. 1-3 Credits.
Permission of the department and the instructor. Internship. Variable credit.

AMST 498. Advanced Seminar in American Studies. 3 Credits.
Graduate or junior/senior standing. Examines American civilization by studying social and cultural history, criticism, art, architecture, music, film, popular pastimes, and amusements, among other possible topics.

AMST 510. Federal Indian Law and Policy. 3 Credits.
This course gives an introduction to the American government's law and policy concerning tribal nations and tribal peoples. We examine a number of legal and political interactions to determine how the United States has answered the "Indian problem" throughout its history and the status of tribal peoples and nations today.

AMST 511. American Indians and American Law. 3 Credits.
This course explores the history of Native interaction with the American legal system in order to understand how the law affects Native peoples and others today. Students are encouraged (but not required) to take AMST 510 before enrolling in this course.

AMST 512. Race and American Law. 3 Credits.
This class will explore the intersection between race and American law, both in a historical and contemporary context. It will ask how both of these major social forces have informed and defined each other and what that means for how we think about race and law today.

AMST 671. Introduction to Public History. 3 Credits.
Introduces the theory, politics, and practice of historical work conducted in public venues (museums, historic sites, national parks, government agencies, archives), directed at public audiences, or addressed to public issues.

AMST 691H. Honors in American Studies. 3 Credits.
Directed independent research leading to the preparation of an honors thesis and an oral examination on the thesis. Required of candidates for graduation with honors in American studies who enroll in the class once permission to pursue honors is granted.

AMST 692H. Honors in American Studies. 3 Credits.
Directed independent research leading to the preparation of an honors thesis and an oral examination on the thesis. Required of candidates for graduation with honors in American studies who enroll in the class once permission to pursue honors is granted.

AMST 700. The History and Practices of American Studies. 3 Credits.
This course will acquaint students with the texts, contexts, issues, and controversies in American Studies as a field of study. It is required for most American studies graduate students and open to graduate students in other departments.

AMST 701. Interdisciplinary Research Methods. 3 Credits.
This course will focus on techniques of American studies investigation. Various faculty members will make presentations highlighting approaches including Southern studies, American Indian studies, Material Culture studies, and new media.

AMST 702. Readings in American Studies. 3 Credits.
This course takes a specific topic to explore in depth, and through this investigation critically examines contending perspectives on the field. Topics will change depending on faculty interest.

AMST 714. Incarceration in America. 3 Credits.
This course explores the theoretical underpinnings, history, and contemporary controversies around incarceration in the United States. It begins by exploring early articulations of the need for imprisonment as punishment, examines how that history unfolded in the 18th, 19th, and 20th centuries, and engages with contemporary debates about mass incarceration and its impacts on American communities.

AMST 715. Community Histories and Public Humanities. 3 Credits.
Community Histories and Public Humanities explores how communities have been, are, and might be preserved, documented, represented, and remembered. Focuses on the use of digitized primary sources and tools to engage communities in public history/humanities initiatives using interdisciplinary approaches informed by American Studies and Folklore. Participants have opportunity to work on ongoing community history/archiving projects. Project-based work is supported by reading in memory studies, representation, sites of trauma, community archiving, and oral history.

AMST 720. Fugitive Philosophies: The Intellectual Tradition of Forced Movers. 3 Credits.
Seminar traces the intellectual tradition of refugees, migrants, and forced movers transiting the United States. Beginning in the 19th century and progressing to the 21st century, we will examine the works of anticolonial thinkers, Caribbean philosophers, journalists of the African American and Latinx traditions, labor movement musicians, activists in the Long Civil Rights Movement, Marxist organizers, and social and political reformers. We analyze how their dislocations and multi-sited lives have created spaces for philosophical interventions.

AMST 775. Graduate Seminar in Food Studies: Interdisciplinary Research. 3 Credits.
This class exposes graduate students to interdisciplinary food studies research in the humanities. We use farm records, cookbooks, novels, poetry, photographs, songs, documentaries, and oral histories to investigate American food communities. We are not aiming to define food studies, but are looking at its questions, problems, theories, and methods.

AMST 795. Digital Humanities Field Experience. 1-3 Credits.
An opportunity for students to translate theory into practice as they make meaningful contributions to digital humanities projects. Field experience can be tailored to fit the intellectual and professional needs of individual students, who may choose to work on projects in cultural heritage institutions or within academic departments on campus.

AMST 820. Critical Ethnic Studies (CES): New Perspectives. 3 Credits.
This course is devised to provide graduate students interested in theoretical interdisciplinary work with a sense of prevailing questions and critiques important to CES. CES takes on the more difficult questions of intersectional work, as it thinks through sovereignty and emancipation, identity and ontology, place, space and temporality. Each iteration of the course works itself through new perspectives in the field, challenging students to create new methodologies for their own work.

AMST 840. Digital Humanities/Digital American Studies. 3 Credits.
This course, explores the application of digital technologies to the materials, questions, and practices of humanities scholarship, particularly as related to enduring topics in American Studies scholarship and community engagement. Students will work on group digital history projects in collaboration with local cultural heritage organizations.

AMST 850. Digital Humanities Practicum. 3 Credits.
This practicum blends graduate seminar discussions with hands-on training in the digital humanities. Students will work in the Digital Innovation Lab, contributing to real-life projects while developing their own professional development goals. Students will emerge with a deeper understanding of and experience with digital humanities approaches, practices, and issues.

AMST 878. Readings in Native American History. 3 Credits.
Readings in and discussions of the major works in Native American history.

AMST 880. American Film and Media History. 3 Credits.
Topically focused examination of social and cultural aspects of cinema and media history in the United States, including cinema/media audiences, reception, and historiography.

AMST 890. Seminar in American Studies. 3 Credits.
Graduate seminar exploring selected topics in the theory and practice of American Studies.

AMST 895. Directed Readings. 3 Credits.
Permission of the instructor. Independent reading programs for graduate students.

AMST 900. Directed Studies. 0.5-15 Credits.
Permission of the instructor. Topics and credit hours vary according to the needs and interests of the individual student and the professor supervising the research project.

AMST 901. M.A. Research Seminar. 3 Credits.
Students will be introduced to issues of project design, develop a prospectus for the M.A. capstone project, work with an advisor, and prepare full drafts of their projects.

AMST 902. Ph.D. Research Seminar. 3 Credits.
A review of current scholarship in American Studies, with the aim of creating the final reading list for the comprehensive exams, and an introduction to dissertation design.

AMST 903. Comprehensive Exams and Dissertation Design. 3 Credits.
This is the third and final course in a required sequence for PhD students in the Department of American Studies. It is intended to scaffold you into "ABD" status: the concentrated period of research and writing that will lead to the completion of a dissertation. It does so first by creating a community of common labor around studying for comprehensive exams, and then by support you through the dissertation proposal and prospectus writing process. Restricted to Graduate Students only.

AMST 948. Research in Native American History. 3 Credits.
This course introduces graduate students to research methods in Native American history, including the methodology of ethnohistory and the techniques of compiling a source base, taking notes, and outlining.

AMST 992. Master's (Non-Thesis). 3 Credits.
Non-Thesis Option

AMST 993. Master's Research and Thesis. 3 Credits.
Master's Thesis

AMST 994. Doctoral Research and Dissertation. 3 Credits.
Individual work on the doctoral dissertation, pursued under the supervision of the Ph.D. advisor.

