BMME 89. First Year Seminar: Special Topics. 3 Credits.
Special topics course. Content will vary each semester.

BMME 150. Introduction to Materials Science. 3 Credits.
Focus on the materials science and processing of electronic, metallic, polymeric, ceramic, and composite materials. The electronic, optical, magnetic, and structural properties of materials are related to their applications. Majors only.

BMME 160. Statics. 3 Credits.
Course restricted to admitted majors only. Course covers rigid body mechanics of bodies at equilibrium or at rest (statics), and an introduction to rigid body mechanics of bodies in motion (dynamics). A foundation in engineering concepts and practices required to design and analyze many types of structural members is presented. Provides a foundation for more advanced courses.

BMME 190. Special Topics in Biomedical Engineering. 1-3 Credits.
A study in the special fields under the direction of the faculty. Offered as needed for presenting material not normally available in regular BMME courses. Honors version available.

BMME 201. Computer Methods in Biomedical Engineering. 3 Credits.
This course introduces students to problem-solving techniques using the MATLAB programming language. Fundamental computer science basics are taught as they relate to problems encountered in biomedical engineering and other scientific disciplines. Programming activities will incorporate actual data (e.g., stress/strain data and microscopy images) for relevant, real-world examples. Course restricted to admitted majors only.

BMME 205. Biomedical Mechanics. 4 Credits.
Study of the state of rest or motion of bodies subjected to the action of forces. Properties of force systems, free body diagrams, concepts of equilibrium, kinematics of particles, Newton's laws, conservational principles of energy of momentum in mechanics, mechanical vibrations, and their applications in biomedical systems. Biomedical Engineering majors only.

BMME 207. Biomedical Electronics. 4 Credits.
Fundamentals of analog and digital circuit analysis and design as applied to biomedical instrumentation and measurement of biological potentials. Passive circuit components, node and mesh analysis, transient behavior, operational amplifiers, frequency response, analog filter design, diode, transistors, biological signal acquisition, binary math and logical operators, digital circuit design, circuit simulation tools and techniques. Laboratory exercises supplement the topics presented in class lectures. Previously offered as BMME 350. Majors only.

BMME 209. Materials Science of Biomaterials. 4 Credits.
Focus on the materials science and processing of electronic, metallic, polymeric, ceramic, and composite materials. The electronic, optical, magnetic, and structural properties of materials are related to their applications. Lab component focused on integrating biological engineering and materials engineering principles by exploring key topics in materials science. Topics include biomaterial fabrication, evaluation of their physical properties and interpretation of results. Majors only.

BMME 215L. Biomedical Mechanics Lab. 1 Credits.
Statics and dynamics subjects will be studied with experimental techniques, including strain gauges and accelerometers, and computational methods, including finite-element analysis and motion capture.

BMME 217L. Biomedical Electronics Laboratory. 1 Credits.
This laboratory course is a corequisite to BMME 207 and complements it with relevant labs and examples. Laboratory in analog and digital circuit analysis. Electrical safety, exercises in resistor networks, capacitors and inductors, steady-state and dynamic circuit behavior, active circuits, amplifiers, logic gates, combinatorial and sequential circuits, elementary digital system design, A/D conversion, and biomedical applications. Biomedical and health sciences engineering majors only.

BMME 219L. Materials Science of Biomaterials Lab. 1 Credits.
Introductory laboratory experience focused on integrating biological engineering and materials engineering principles by exploring key topics in materials science. Topics include biomaterial fabrication, evaluation of their physical properties and interpretation of results.

BMME 291. Undergraduate Learning Assistantship in Biomedical Engineering. 1 Credits.
Permission required. Experience includes preparations, demonstrations, assistance, and attendance at weekly meetings. This course will enable ULAs to deepen their understanding of topics in Biomedical Engineering through assisting less-experienced students. This course also offers opportunities for ULAs to engage in oral and written communication on Biomedical Engineering topics. Does not count toward the Biomedical Engineering Major. Majors only.

BMME 293. Undergraduate Internship in Biomedical Engineering. 1-3 Credits.
Permission required. This course will enable undergraduate students to deepen their understanding of topics in Biomedical Engineering through hands-on experience outside of academia and obtain course credit for their experience. Does not count toward the Biomedical Engineering Major. Majors only.

BMME 295. Research in Biomedical Engineering for Undergraduates. 1-3 Credits.
Permission of the director of undergraduate studies. At least three hours per credit hour of independent work a week. Research with a faculty mentor. Approved learning contract required. Research proposal and final research paper also required. Previously offered as BMME 395.

BMME 298. Biomedical Engineering Design and Manufacturing I. 2 Credits.
This is the first in a series of four courses in biomedical design. The course introduces the tools and problem-solving skills required in the field of biomedical engineering. Majors only.

BMME 301. Human Physiology: Electrical Analysis. 4 Credits.
This course includes an electrical analysis approach to human physiology from the biomedical engineering perspective with an emphasis on neural, sensory, and cardiac physiology. Autonomic and somatic motor control will be discussed. Engineering applications, including neural stimulator, functional imaging, cochlear implants, artificial noses, vestibular implants, visual implants, artificial larynges, pacemakers and defibrillators will be discussed. Assignments include computer-based exercises using MATLAB. Majors only.

BMME 302. Human Physiology: Mechanical Analysis. 4 Credits.
Explores a quantitative approach to human physiology from the biomedical engineering perspective with an emphasis on systems physiology described using mechanical properties. Topics include the physiological and mechanical behavior of the blood vessels, lungs, kidney, and muscles. In lab exercises, students investigate mechanical properties of fluids, electrolyte exchange in dialysis, spirometry, and blood pressure measurement among other topics. Culminates with the design of a novel laboratory experiment.

BMME 315. Biotransport. 3 Credits.
This course serves as introduction for engineers pursuing transport phenomena and for future pharmaco-engineers requiring predictive models of mass transfer or pharmacodynamic models. Material is designed to address heat and mass transfer issues in nanotechnology, microfabrication, mems, cell therapies, bioartificial organs, as well as pharmacodynamic modeling of dynamic "omics" datasets. Previously offered as BMME 475. Majors only.

BMME 325. Biochemistry for Biomedical Engineers. 3 Credits.
An overview of how alterations in bioenergetics, enzyme catalysis, protein and membrane structure, carbohydrate, lipid and nucleic acid metabolism affect human health. Topics include: biological thermodynamics, energy of macromolecular structure and binding, structure/function of proteins, enzymes and nucleic acids, kinetics, enzyme catalysis and biochemical network analysis, generation of chemical and electrical potential in membranes, carbohydrate/lipid/protein metabolism and energy production, DNA synthesis, transcription, and the technologies used to monitor/detect biochemical processes.

BMME 335. Biomaterials. 3 Credits.
Focus on the mechanical, chemical, and biocompatibility considerations of any material (e.g., metal, ceramic, or polymer) designed to interface with the body. Various applications of biomaterials are presented and analyzed, including femoral implants and vascular grafts, in order to guide students in a semester-long design project. Previously offered as BMME 510. Majors only.

BMME 345. Biomedical Solid Mechanics. 3 Credits.
This course covers topics ranging from multi-body systems to stress superposition to failure criteria to prepare students for the more advanced subjects of biomechanics and rehabilitation engineering. Topics include free-body diagrams, multibody statics and dynamics, linkage kinematics and kinetics, anthropometric kinematics, stress/strain/torsion, beam bending, stress superposition, constitutive relationship, strain gauges, finite-element analysis, failure analysis, and failure mechanisms. Restricted to Biomedical Engineering Majors.

BMME 355. Biocontrols. 3 Credits.
Quantitative analysis of dynamic and feedback control systems, including modeling of physiological systems and physiological control systems, system time and frequency responses, control characteristics, and stability analysis. Design techniques for feedback systems in biomedical applications. Majors only.

BMME 365. Systems and Signals. 3 Credits.
Analysis of linear systems by transform methods to networks, including Fourier transforms, Laplace transforms, and convolution. Survey of linear systems applications to biomedical problems. Previously offered as BMME 410. Majors only.

BMME 375. Biomedical Microcontroller Applications. 3 Credits.
Introduction to digital computers for real-time processing and control of signals and systems. Programming input and output devices using C and assembly language is stressed. Case studies are used to present software design strategies for real-time laboratory systems. Previously offered as BMME 580. Majors only.

BMME 385. Bioinstrumentation. 3 Credits.
Fundamentals of biomedical instrument design and implementation. Topics include basic electronic circuit design, analysis of medical instrumentation circuits, analog-to-digital signal conversion, biosignal capture and storage, embedded microprocessors, system integration, and prototyping. This course is a lecture course with a project component. Previously offered as BMME 465. Majors only.

BMME 386. Biomedical Instrumentation Design and Prototyping I. 1 Credits.
Students will learn advanced topics in concept development, detailed design, fabrication, assembly, testing, deployment, and incorporation of user feedback in the design and fabrication of components and systems for research and technology development in biomedical engineering. Students will interact with faculty with many decades of research and commercial design experience to develop and deploy design solutions for BME laboratories and technology spin-outs. This course is the first in a series of two courses. Majors only.

BMME 396. Independent Study in Biomedical Engineering. 1-3 Credits.
Permission of the director of undergraduate studies. Independent study under a member of the biomedical engineering faculty. Approved learning contract required.

BMME 398. Biomedical Engineering Design and Manufacturing II. 2 Credits.
In this course, you will learn the validation and verification stages of the design process as applied to the development of new medical devices. This course is the second part of a 3 year sequence in which you will learn the process of biomedical engineering design along with technical skills that will allow you to develop new devices to solve unmet medical needs. Previously offered as BMME 310. Majors only. Honors version available.

BMME 435. Biological Physics. 3 Credits.
How diffusion, entropy, electrostatics, and hydrophobicity generate order and force in biology. Topics include DNA manipulation, intracellular transport, cell division, molecular motors, single molecule biophysics techniques, nerve impulses, neuroscience.

BMME 441. Thermal Physics. 3 Credits.
Equilibrium statistical mechanics; the laws of thermodynamics, internal energy, enthalpy, entropy, thermodynamic potentials, Maxwell's relations.

BMME 461. Introduction to Medical Imaging. 3 Credits.
This class covers the underlying concepts and instrumentation of modern medical imaging modalities. Review of applicable linear systems theory and relevant principles of physics. Modalities covered include X-ray radiography (conventional film-screen imaging and modern electronic imaging), computerized tomography (including the theory of reconstruction), magnetic resonance imaging, SPECT/PET, and ultrasound imaging.

BMME 486. Biomedical Instrumentation Design and Prototyping II. 2 Credits.
Students will build upon skills learned in BMME 386 and assume project leadership roles as well as team management roles for more complex projects involving design, fabrication, assembly, testing, deployment, and incorporation of user feedback in the design and fabrication of components and systems for research and technology development in biomedical engineering. Students will interact with highly experienced faculty to develop and deploy design solutions for BME laboratories and technology spin-outs.

BMME 495. Undergraduate Research in Biomedical Engineering as a Technical Elective. 3 Credits.
Opportunity for hands-on faculty mentored research project in biomedical engineering. Approved plan of work required with significant independent research culminating in a final paper and presentation at an appropriate venue. Departmental approval required. Course may not be repeated. Permission of department.

BMME 505. Skeletal Biomechanics. 3 Credits.
A firm understanding of the principles of mechanics is an important foundation to biomechanics. In this course, students will study the mechanics of materials with applications to the strength of bone, implant analysis, and testing of biological materials. A goal of this course is for students to understand how the interface of biology, mechanics, and therapies affect skeletal pathological conditions.

BMME 511. Genetic Engineering. 3 Credits.
The course introduces the engineering principles used to modify cells in a variety of biomedical applications. The format includes lectures, discussion of primary research literature, and application of engineering design principles through student projects. The goals are to 1) discuss genome editing technologies, 2) evaluate strategies for cellular reprogramming and directed differentiation of stem cells, and 3) illustrate how genetic modification can be harnessed for cellular therapy and research applications such as animal models.

BMME 521. Introduction to Synthetic Biology. 3 Credits.
This course provides an introduction to the ideas and methodologies in the field of synthetic biology. Lectures focus on fundamental concepts in molecular biology and engineering as applied to biological system design. The laboratory portion of the course provides hands-on application of fundamental techniques in synthetic biology research. Previously offered as BMME 420. Majors only.

BMME 523. Biomolecular Engineering. 3 Credits.
This course introduces the use and creation of biomolecules for biomedical applications to foster the development of a mission oriented research plan to create engineered biomolecules for biomedical applications. Students will search, prepare, evaluate, design, and simulate biomolecules through lectures on the basic chemical and structural properties of biomolecules, exploiting varieties of biomolecules, practical methods to engineer biomolecules, and development of a student research plan. BME students only.

BMME 524. Biomolecular Sensing Technologies. 3 Credits.
This course introduces the science and technology of biomolecular sensing technologies, the essence of biosensors, and biochemical and immunological in vitro/in vivo diagnostic devices. The focus of the class is biomolecules (enzymes, antibodies, binding proteins, receptors, aptamers, molecularly imprinted polymers, etc.), bioelectronics and biochemical principles employed in biosensor development. Majors only.

BMME 527. Targeted Photomedicine. 3 Credits.
This course will introduce students to fundamental concepts and engineering approaches in targeted photomedicine, particularly for the treatment of cancer. Students will review and present research articles on emerging applications of photomedicine. The major deliverable will be an NIH-style research proposal, based on lecture material and a literature review, to help students gain an understanding of advancements in targeted photomedicine.

BMME 543. Biomechanics of Movement. 3 Credits.
This course provides an overview of musculoskeletal anatomy, and of the mechanical behavior of biological tissues and biological systems. Students learn to apply fundamental principles of mechanics to analyze movement in humans and other animals. Applications in rehabilitation and orthopedics are emphasized. Previously offered as BMME 405 and BMME 503.

BMME 545. Systems Neuroscience. 3 Credits.
Introduction to methodologies used to characterize a) the aggregate behavior of living neural networks and b) the changes in that behavior that occur as a function of stimulus properties, pharmacological manipulations, and other factors that dynamically modify the functional status of the network. Previously offered as BMME 445.

BMME 547. Neural Basis of Rehabilitation Engineering. 3 Credits.
The course will 1) introduce basic neuroscience topics underlying sensorimotor control, and 2) introduce different types of childhood and adult neuromuscular disorders with both central and peripheral origins. The main focus of the class will be on the different techniques used for diagnosis, assessment, and rehabilitation interventions. Previously offered at BMME 447.

BMME 550. Medical Imaging I: Ultrasonic, Optical, and Magnetic Resonance Systems. 3 Credits.
Physical and mathematical foundations of ultrasonic, optical, and magnetic resonance imaging systems in application to medical diagnostics. Each imaging modality is examined, highlighting critical system characteristics: underlying physics of the imaging system, including mechanisms of data generation and acquisition; image creation; and relevant image processing methods, such as noise reduction.

BMME 551. Medical Device Design I. 3 Credits.
Student multidisciplinary teams work with local medical professionals to define specific medical device concepts for implementation.

BMME 552. Medical Device Design II. 3 Credits.
Device prototypes designed in the first course in series. Good manufacturing practices; process validation; FDA quality system regulations; design verification and validation; regulatory approval planning; and intellectual property protection.

BMME 555. Biofluid Mechanics. 3 Credits.
This course introduces students to basics of fluid mechanics (steady and pulsatile flows, laminar and turbulent flows, and Newtonian and non-Newtonian flows). Students learn the fundamental relationships and governing equations describing these types of flows and the basic physiology of certain systems that are highly associated with fluid flows. Previously offered as BMME 455.

BMME 560. Medical Imaging II: X-Ray, CT, and Nuclear Medicine Systems. 3 Credits.
Overview of medical imaging systems using ionizing radiation. Interaction of radiation with matter. Radiation production and detection. Radiography systems and applications. Tomography. PET and SPECT systems and applications.

BMME 565. Biomedical Instrumentation I. 4 Credits.
Graduate students or permission of the instructor. Topics include basic electronic circuit design, analysis of medical instrumentation circuits, physiologic transducers (pressure, flow, bioelectric, temperate, and displacement). This course includes a laboratory where the student builds biomedical devices.

BMME 568. Super Resolution-Imaging Beyond Limits. 3 Credits.
All imaging systems have limitations due to hardware specifications or fundamental physical principles. This course will focus on ways to surpass these limits through experimental design, new physical principles, and deep learning/computational processing. Toward this end, we will cover the fundamental mechanisms of image formation in the most common biomedical imaging modalities and describe recent approaches to extend resolution beyond conventional limits.

BMME 572. Analysis of Tissue Engineering Technologies. 3 Credits.
Lectures in this course address how to quantitatively evaluate functional engineered tissues. The course provides an overview of the field, with emphasis on detailed evaluation of scientific and commercial progress over time, and design principles that must be met to develop a process or fabricate a functional tissue-engineered part. Previously offered as BMME 470 and BMME 570.

BMME 575. Practical Machine Learning for Biosignal Analysis. 3 Credits.
This graduate level course will introduce practical machine learning concepts and tools, and will exemplify their application to the analysis of biological signals and images, including brain imaging, electrophysiology, and image recognition. MATH 347 recommended.

BMME 576. Mathematics for Image Computing. 3 Credits.
Mathematics relevant to image processing and analysis using real image computing objectives and provided by computer implementations.

BMME 581. Microcontroller Applications II. 3 Credits.
Advanced topics in microcontroller systems used for biomedical instruments. Problems of interfacing computers with biomedical systems are studied. Students collaborate to develop a new biomedical instrument. Platforms could include the use of digital signal processing (DSP) microcontrollers or field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs), and topics could include applications such as digital signal processing and high speed data acquisition to computers.

BMME 585. Biotechnology. 3 Credits.
This course is designed to prepare a biomedical engineering student with the survey tools to understand key components in modern biotechnologies. Fundamental concepts, theory, design, operation, and analysis of the most common biotechnologies in bioengineering will be presented. Previously offered as BMME 485.

BMME 590. Special Topics in Biomedical Engineering. 1-9 Credits.
A study in the special fields under the direction of the faculty. Offered as needed for presenting material not normally available in regular BMME courses. Previously offered as BMME 490. Majors only.

BMME 681. Human Factors Engineering and Quality Management Systems for Engineers. 3 Credits.
This course teaches human factors engineering, risk assessment, and quality management systems. At the end of the course, students will be able to apply their knowledge to their senior design project and test for a six sigma green belt certification.

BMME 691H. Honors Thesis. 3 Credits.
Research honors course. Prior approval needed from the chair or associate chair of the program for topic selection and faculty research mentor. Minimum GPA requirement, written report, and abstract requirements as set forth by the honors program.

BMME 692H. Honors Thesis. 3 Credits.
Research honors thesis continuation with required GPA, research topic selection with approved faculty mentor. Written abstract and report per honors program guidelines submitted by specific deadlines.

BMME 697. BME Senior Design: Product Development. 3 Credits.
This course is part of a three year sequence and it expands on the skills and knowledge gained in BM(M)E 398. Students continue to learn the process of engineering design and learn new skills to produce solutions for unmet medical needs. Majors only.

BMME 698. Biomedical Engineering Senior Design: Product Implementation and Strategy. 3 Credits.
This course is part of a three-year sequence and it expands on the skills and knowledge gained in prior design courses. Students continue to learn the process of engineering design and learn new skills to produce solutions for unmet medical needs. Implementation phase of the senior design experience.

BMME 740. Advanced Biomaterials. 3 Credits.
Medical or dental implants or explants are highlighted from textbooks, scientific literature, and personal accounts.

BMME 770. Physiology and Methods in Genomics. 4 Credits.
Lectures in physiology systems and lab techniques covering various functional genomic methods including DNA sequencing, gene arrays, proteomics, confocal microscopy, and imaging modalities.

BMME 775. Image Processing and Analysis. 3 Credits.
Approaches to analysis of digital images. Scale geometry, statistical pattern recognition, optimization. Segmentation, registration, shape analysis. Applications, software tools.

BMME 780. Advanced Materials Science. 3 Credits.
This course covers the physical fundamentals of material science with an in-depth discussion of structure formation in soft and hard materials and how structure determines material mechanical, electrical, thermal, and optical properties. Topics include amorphous and crystal structures, defects, dislocation theory, thermodynamics and phase diagrams, diffusion, interfaces and microstructures, solidification, and theory of phase transformation. Special emphasis will be on the structure-property relationships of (bio)polymers, (nano)composites, and their structure property relationships.

BMME 790. Graduate Systems Physiology. 3 Credits.
This is the second semester of the two-semester series intended to provide graduate students with an introduction to systems and organ physiology.

BMME 795. Information Processing in the Central Nervous System. 3 Credits.
Introduction to methodologies used to characterize a) the aggregate behavior of living neural networks and b) the changes in that behavior that occurs as a function of stimulus properties, pharmacological manipulations, and other factors that dynamically modify the functional status of the network.

BMME 796. Seminar in Biomedical Imaging Science. 3 Credits.
This course serves as a gateway course to the Graduate Certificate in Biomedical Imaging Science. This course offers an introduction to the most common imaging modalities, including MR, CT, PET, SPECT, ultrasound, and optical imaging. Lectures include discussions of hardware, physics, as well as pre-clinical and clinical applications.

BMME 810. Digital Nuclear Imaging. 3 Credits.
Advanced topics of physics and instrumentation in nuclear imaging and magnetic resonance techniques.

BMME 840. Rehabilitation Engineering Design. 4 Credits.
Students will design an assistive technology device to help individuals with disabilities to become more independent. The project will be used in the community when it is completed.

BMME 890. Special Topics. 1-21 Credits.
Permission of the instructor. Special library and/or laboratory work on an individual basis on specific problems in biomedical engineering and biomedical mathematics. Direction of students is on a tutorial basis and subject matter is selected on the basis of individual needs and interests.

BMME 900. Research in Biomedical Engineering and Biomathematics. 1-21 Credits.
Permission of the instructor.

BMME 993. Master's Research and Thesis. 3 Credits.
No description available.

BMME 994. Doctoral Research and Dissertation. 3 Credits.
No description available.

