ROML 50. First-Year Seminar: The Art and Science of Language: Orality and Literacy in the Information Age. 3 Credits.
Students examine the expressive use of language in oral and written texts. Particular emphasis is placed on the contribution of the cognitive sciences to an understanding of how humans communicate.

ROML 51. First-Year Seminar: National and Cultural Identities in the Romance Areas. 3 Credits.
Explores the development of national identities in the Romance world, focusing on conscious and unconscious attitudes toward language that helped fashion the four major Romance languages. Honors version available.

ROML 52. First-Year Seminar: The Value of Language in Identity: Hispanics in the United States. 3 Credits.
This course explore the cultural challenges for Spanish-speaking immigrants in the United States, particularly the importance of language in culture and identity.

ROML 53. First-Year Seminar: Oral Histories of Our Local Hispanic Community. 3 Credits.
Introduces students to procedures for gathering, transcribing, and analyzing oral histories and to issues related to the growing Hispanic population at both the national and local levels.

ROML 54. First-Year Seminar: Issues in Francophone Literature. 3 Credits.
Studies such issues as national identities and national memory; the impact of colonization, postcolonialism, and globalization; conflicts between tradition and modernity; and the place of women in history.

ROML 55. First-Year Seminar: Writing with an Accent: Latino Literature and Culture. 3 Credits.
A study of the literary production of Hispanics living in the United States. Examines works by Chicano, Puerto Rican, Nuyorican, Dominican, and Cuban American writers. Honors version available.

ROML 56. First-Year Seminar: Italians in Search of Harmony. 3 Credits.
This course explores the concept of harmony in selected Italian writers from Dante to contemporary film directors.

ROML 58. First-Year Seminar: Mexican Women across Borders and Genres. 3 Credits.
Participants read poems, letters, stories, and short novels by Mexican women of the 20th century. Focus on gender and transgression, feminism, identity formation, and marginality. Selections from Elena Poniatowska, Sandra Cisneros, Cristina Rivera Garza, Ana Clavel, and Ángeles Mastretta, among others.

ROML 60. First-Year Seminar: Spanish and Entrepreneurship: Language, Culture, and North Carolina Communities. 3 Credits.
Students study Spanish language and Latino cultures through the lens of social entrepreneurship, a process of opportunity recognition, resource gathering, and value creation that brings sustainability to a social mission.

ROML 61. First-Year Seminar: Language in Autism and Developmental Disorders. 3 Credits.
In the United States, 17 percent of children have a developmental disability. How do they learn and use language to communicate, socialize, and achieve goals? How do we improve their language skills? This course examines these and other questions and helps students understand and carry out research with special populations.

ROML 62. First-Year Seminar: What Happened to Latin?. 3 Credits.
Analysis of how Latin transformed the linguistic configuration of the world and its lasting impact on culture and science. No previous knowledge of Latin or of any Romance language necessary to enroll.

ROML 63. First Year Seminar: Forging Alliances: Religion, War, and Cultural Transference on the Camino. 3 Credits.
This first-year seminar explores the role the Camino de Santiago (the Way of St. James) played in the construction of a distinctive Spanish identity in the medieval period of Europe. The topic is approached from a variety of perspectives: religious, political, economic, social, cultural, and artistic.

ROML 70. First-Year Seminar: Jewish Spain: History and Culture Across the Hispanic World. 3 Credits.
This seminar explores the history and culture of medieval Spanish Jewry and how modern Hispanic societies have reimagined this past. We will interrogate how a fascination with Sephardic Jews overlaps with a variety of topics: national identity, anti-Semitism, liberal democracy, colonialism, exile, Holocaust memory, among others. We will think about the relevance of Jewish Spain to our present by working with a diverse group of cultural products from Spain, Argentina, Mexico, Puerto Rico, and Cuba.

ROML 71. First-Year Seminar: Asia in Iberian Converso Literature, 1500s-1650s. 3 Credits.
This course examines how 16th- and 17th-century Iberian authors of Jewish heritage imagined and represented Chinese, Filipinos, Japanese, and Indonesians in their writings (e.g. plays, historical narratives, economic treatises, travel accounts, maps, etc.). We explore how these authors' representations of Asians not only dialogued with various interwoven variables (political, economic, and religious factors), but also revealed the historically complex issue regarding notions of personal identities and nationhood.

ROML 75. First-Year Seminar: Discovering Animals: Culture and Creativity. 3 Credits.
This course explores animals and literature, film, art, stimulating students to do research in teamwork and become "animal writers" themselves.

ROML 89. First-Year Seminar: Special Topics. 3 Credits.
Special topics course. Content will vary by each semester. Honors version available.

ROML 194. Service Learning in Romance Studies. 1 Credits.
Permission of the instructor. Service learning component for students enrolled in Romance Studies APPLES courses. May not count toward any major or minor offered in the department.

ROML 229. Literature in the Romance Languages. 3 Credits.
An introduction to literature in the Romance languages. All readings in English translation. Focus and readings will vary. Honors version available.

ROML 280. Social Theory and Cultural Diversity. 3 Credits.
Introduction to basic paradigms of thinking about cultural difference (race, gender, nationality, religion, etc.), shaping how we act, think, and imagine as members of diverse cultures.

ROML 293. Internship in Romance Studies. 3 Credits.
Required preparation, two courses numbered above FREN/ITAL/PORT/SPAN 204. An opportunity to obtain credit for an internship requiring regular use of French, Italian, Portuguese, or Spanish while working in an organization in the United States or abroad. Does not count toward the major. Permission of the department. Open to majors and minors only.

ROML 295. Research, Creativity, and Innovation in the Humanities. 3 Credits.
This course serves as an introduction to research methodologies, theories, and the university resources available to students seeking to perform cutting-edge research in the humanities. The goal of the course is to produce a substantial research project. The capacities developed in this course as well as the project itself could be used as the basis for grants, scholarships, internship applications, or an honors thesis. Taught in English. Previously offered as CMPL 395H/GSLL 295H/ROML 295H.

ROML 399. Animals in European Culture and Literature: Explorations, Research, and Creativity. 3 Credits.
This course explores philosophical reflections about animals and their literary representations, offering students a space of interlocution to share their own ideas and experiences.

ROML 461. Beginning Accelerated Romanian. 3 Credits.
Covers levels one and two of the basic language sequence in one semester. Designed for highly motivated undergraduate/graduate language learners, especially those who have experienced success with learning another language. Intensive approach to developing all skills but with an emphasis on speaking.

ROML 462. Intermediate Accelerated Romanian. 3 Credits.
A continuation of ROML 461, covers levels three and four in one semester. Develops all skills, with increasing emphasis on reading, writing, and cultural analysis. Designed for highly motivated undergraduate/graduate language learners, especially those who have experienced success with learning another language.

ROML 490. Special Topics in Romance Studies and Languages. 3 Credits.
Examines selected topics in Romance studies and languages. Content varies by semester and instructor.

ROML 500. Research Methods for Romance Languages and European Studies. 3 Credits.
Required preparation, B.A. with honors student or M.A. student. Provides training in research methodology for a B.A. with honors or M.A. thesis. Students will learn to conceptualize an original research project and to identify and assess the current intellectual debates in their chosen areas of research.

ROML 501. Introduction to Digital Humanities for Romance Languages, Cultures and Heritage Studies. 3 Credits.
Introduction to the digital humanities, its methods, theories, and applications in humanistic research as it pertains to the Romance languages, their cultures and heritage. Covers a variety of digital tools and approaches to explore, understand, organize, present, and tell stories with data from the Romance worlds. In English and open to graduate students and advanced undergraduates of all programs.

ROML 578. Comparative History of the Romance Languages. 3 Credits.
The linguistic study of the evolution of Spanish, Portuguese, French, and Italian (and other Romance languages) from their common ancestor of Latin. Emphasis on phonological, morphological, syntactic, and lexical commonalities and divergences among the languages.

ROML 600. Masters Workshop on Theory. 3 Credits.
This graduate seminar consists of a series of in-depth studies of several major contemporary approaches to literary theory. Designed primarily as an elective for masters candidates in Romance Languages, this course aims to prepare students for advanced literature and literary theory courses.

ROML 650. The Politics of Remembering: Memory, History, and Power in 20th-Century Europe. 3 Credits.
Interdisciplinary, comparative, and multimedia approach to the question of memory and history in 20th-century Europe. Explores individual memory, collective memory, and commemoration. Survey of interdisciplinary approaches to the field and an examination of historical sites through the narratives of mental illness, fiction, memoir, testimonial literature, photography, and film.

ROML 660. Film and Culture in Brazil and Spanish America. 3 Credits.
Critical examination of 20th-century Latin American cultural history in Brazil and Spanish-speaking countries, including Mexico, Cuba, El Salvador, Peru, Colombia, and Argentina. Course is framed between late 19th-century modernization and the contemporary discussion on globalization.

ROML 665. Reading Latin American Film and Photography. 3 Credits.
Required preparation, one Spanish or Portuguese major-level literature course or permission of the instructor. Critical readings of photography through the lens of Brazilian and Spanish-American written, photographic, and film archives. This course is designed for graduate and advanced undergraduate students and considers current theoretical movements in photography alongside the historical, political, and aesthetic debates shaping the field of Latin American visual culture.

ROML 698. Seminar in Romance Languages: Capstone Course. 3 Credits.
Capstone course.

ROML 700. Theories and Techniques of Teaching. 3 Credits.
Required of all new graduate instructors. Exploration of theoretical issues in teaching Romance languages with their practical applications, including the integration of technology.

ROML 707. Film Theory and Criticism. 3 Credits.
Introduction to theoretical, analytical and historical approaches to narrative cinema in the Spanish-speaking world. For graduate students with no prior experience working with film.

ROML 751. Introduction to Medieval Studies. 3 Credits.
Interdisciplinary course to introduce graduate students to the sources, methods, and approaches of medieval studies.

ROML 755. Workshop on Literary Theory and Research Methods. 1.5 Credits.
An introduction to contemporary theoretical positions to acquaint the student with issues posed by formalism, Marxism, feminism, and deconstruction. Orientation to Romance bibliography and research methods.

ROML 756. Topics in Translation Studies. 3 Credits.
Permission of instructor. A rotating topic seminar on translation studies, providing an overview of the field and/or specializing in one or more sub-topics: post-colonialism, feminism, theory/practice, adaptation, censorship, activism. See department announcements for current topic and reading list. In English. Fulfills 'theory' requirement for graduate students.

ROML 793. Graduate Internship in Romance Studies. 1 Credits.
Allows ROMS graduate students to pursue paid or unpaid practicums or internships for credit. Examples include working with a teacher at a secondary or independent school, shadowing a staff member in university administration, working in a nonprofit, library, museum, or other relevant government or private-sector agency. Work undertaken for unpaid internships must comply with Federal criteria. Departmental approval required. Restricted to Graduate students only

ROML 800. Professional Development for Romance Studies. 1 Credits.
This required course for graduate students in Romance Studies provides a broad overview of the practical knowledge and skills that students will need to succeed in the graduate program. Restricted to Graduate students only

ROML 820. Introduction to Latin for Romance Studies. 3 Credits.
Thorough study of the basic grammar and syntax of classical Latin, followed by readings from representative medieval literary texts and a sampling of writings by the Italian humanists. Restricted to graduate students in the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures.

ROML 824. Romance Paleography. 3 Credits.
Study of the development of medieval romance book hands and diplomatics from their origins to the advent of printing; with practical exercises.

ROML 825. Provençal. 3 Credits.
Linguistic analysis of the langue d'oc and investigation of medieval Provençal literature.

ROML 830. Seminar in Romance Languages. 3 Credits.
Topic determined by instructor and announced in advance.

ROML 840. Special Readings. 1-21 Credits.
No description available.

ROML 870. Minor Romance Tongues. 3 Credits.
Introduction to the historical development of Catalan, Rhaeto-Romance, and Rumanian. Readings in period texts.

ROML 992. Master's (Non-Thesis). 3 Credits.
No description available.

ROML 993. Master's Research and Thesis. 3 Credits.
No description available.

ROML 994. Doctoral Research and Dissertation. 3 Credits.
No description available.

