PEDO 800. Maternal and Child Health Seminar Series. 1 Credits.
(One hour a week for each fall and spring semester.) This is a seminar series that focuses on a broad range of topics related to pediatric dentistry and pediatric medicine, including general medical issues, practice management, social issues, child advocacy, and presentation of unusual clinical cases.

PEDO 801. Pediatric Diagnosis and Treatment Planning Seminar. 1 Credits.
(One hour a week each fall and spring semester for two years.) This course is a seminar wherein diagnosis and treatment planning options are considered through a problem-oriented approach. For cases in progress and completed, outcomes are reviewed and critiqued.

PEDO 803. Principles of Pediatric Dentistry. 1 Credits.
(Six hours a month for fall and spring semesters for 24 months.) This seminar covers the fundamentals of pediatric dentistry from behavior management to pulp therapy. The course relies on readings of classic and contemporary literature with seminars that include discussions and critiques of readings.

PEDO 804. Advanced Clinical Pediatric Dentistry. 2-6 Credits.
This course provides clinical experience in all phases of pediatric dentistry, including dental treatment under conscious sedation and general anesthesia.

PEDO 805. Contemporary Practice Management. 1 Credits.
(One hour monthly during the spring semester for three years.) This course provides an understanding of the design, implementation, and management of a modern pediatric dental practice. Most seminar leaders are private practitioners who are adjunct faculty in the department.

PEDO 806. Treatment of Pediatric Dental Emergencies. 1 Credits.
(One hour a week each week for 36 months.) This seminar series serves as a faculty/resident forum for reviewing the previous week's emergency cases and in which diagnosis and treatment options are reviewed and critiqued. Endodontic faculty and residents also participate in this course.

PEDO 992. Master's (Non-Thesis). 3 Credits.
Individual research under the direction of a mentor with the intention of publication. Completion of a manuscript and publication is a requirement for an MS degree.

