ORTH 801. Orthodontic Technique. 4 Credits.
Introduction to orthodontic technique and procedures for beginning orthodontic graduate students.

ORTH 802. Current Topics in Orthodontics. 1 Credits.
Seminars on pertinent orthodontic literature for advanced orthodontic students.

ORTH 803. Orthodontic Diagnosis. 2 Credits.
Principles of orthodontic diagnosis and analysis of diagnostic records for orthodontic specialists.

ORTH 805. Advanced Clinical Orthodontics. 2-6 Credits.
Clinical Orthodontics

ORTH 806. Science of Tooth Movement. 2 Credits.
Mechanical principles in orthodontic force production and control; biological response to orthodontic force.

ORTH 807. Orthodontic Biomaterials. 1-3 Credits.
Introduction to orthodontic biomaterials and integration with the basic principles of engineering, science, and orthodontics.

ORTH 808. Growth and Development. 4 Credits.
Principles of growth and development, emphasizing dento-facial development from an evolutionary and molecular biology perspective, as well as the traditional anatomical perspective.

ORTH 809. Preventative Orthodontics. 3 Credits.
Preventative orthodontics.

ORTH 810. Multidisciplinary Management of Craniofacial Anomalies. 1 Credits.
This course introduces the graduate student to the management of patients with craniofacial anomalies using a multidisciplinary team approach. The course gives the graduate student a basic understanding of the role of specialties involved, the procedures, and timing of interventions in the management of craniofacial patients from birth to adulthood.

ORTH 815. Oral-Pharyngeal Function. 1 Credits.
Maturation of oral and pharyngeal function, including speech and its relation to dento-facial development.

ORTH 820. Advanced Biomechanics. 3 Credits.
Concepts in orthodontic mechanics emphasizing segmented arch approaches and laboratory tests of appliance components and designs.

ORTH 822. Environment of Specialty Practice. 3 Credits.
Trends in health care delivery; organization and management of orthodontic specialty practice.

ORTH 992. Master's (Non-Thesis). 3 Credits.
Individual research under the direction of a mentor with the intention of publication. Completion of a manuscript and submission is a requirement for an MS degree.

