CRMH 700. Foundations of Clinical Rehabilitation and Mental Health Counseling. 3 Credits.
This course will cover topics germane to the history and philosophy of rehabilitation. Students will obtain an overview of the field, its consumers, and methods of service delivery.

CRMH 701. Foundations of Clinical Rehabilitation Counseling. 3 Credits.
The purpose of this course is to introduce the field of professional counseling, with a concentration on clinical rehabilitation counseling. The course focuses on clinical rehabilitation counseling history, philosophy, values, legislation, policy, and practice (models and methods of service delivery). The course also provides students with foundational knowledge on the counseling profession, the professional identity of the counselor, ethical and legal standards, competencies and functions, and counseling practice in various settings.

CRMH 702. Theories of Counseling. 3 Credits.
An introduction to the traditional theories of individual and family counseling. Emphasis on application of theories to persons with disabilities, ethics, and multicultural awareness.

CRMH 704. Medical & Psychosocial Aspects of Disabilities. 3 Credits.
Functional, psychological, vocational, familial, social, and sexual aspects of medical disabilities. Includes the human body system and medical terminology. Focus on assistive technology and functional capacity.

CRMH 705. Ethical, Legal, and Professional Issues in Counseling. 3 Credits.
This course will assist students' development of foundational knowledge of ethical, legal, and professional issues within the counseling profession, with a specific emphasis on clinical mental health counseling and clinical rehabilitation counseling practice. Students will learn to recognize ethical dilemmas and practice resolving them using ethical decision making models.

CRMH 706. Tests and Measurement in Clinical Rehabilitation & Mental Health Counseling. 3 Credits.
This course is an overview of the selection, administration, and interpretation of major assessment tools. Emphasis is on persons with mental illness or developmental disabilities.

CRMH 708. Career Counseling and Development: Applications for Clinical Mental Health Counselors. 3 Credits.
This course will cover career development and counseling with emphasis on community integration in employment and leisure pursuits. This course will examine the world of work, life career development, career decision- making theories, the process and techniques of career counseling and the interrelationship between career and life balance issues and mental health.

CRMH 709. Career Counseling and Development: Applications for Clinical Rehabilitation Counselors. 3 Credits.
This course will cover career development and counseling with emphasis on community integration in employment and leisure pursuits. This course will examine the world of work, life career development, career decision- making theories, the process and techniques of career counseling and the interrelationship between career and life balance issues and mental health.

CRMH 710. A Multicultural Perspective of Developmental Counseling through the Lifespan. 3 Credits.
A multicultural perspective of developmental theories and counseling through the lifespan will be covered with overall themes of positive development, resiliency, and healthy life transitions of persons with disabilities.

CRMH 712. Fundamentals of CRMH Diagnosis & Practice with People with Psychiatric & Developmental Disabilities. 3 Credits.
An introduction to diagnosing clients with mental illness and developmental disabilities. Focus is on best practice treatment and the vocational, social, and familial implications of living with a DSM disorder.

CRMH 714. Principles of Group Counseling in Clinical Rehabilitation & Mental Health Counseling. 3 Credits.
Strategies and techniques in developing and implementing groups in counseling. Attention to group counseling with persons with disabilities, specifically those with mental illness and developmental disabilities.

CRMH 716. Case Management, Rehabilitation Services, and Resources. 3 Credits.
Emphasis on leadership in all aspects of person-centered service coordination to include transdisciplinary and multi-agency effectiveness, knowledge of community organization and resources, service and support options.

CRMH 718. Co-Occurring Disorders in Clinical Rehabilitation & Mental Health Counseling. 3 Credits.
Introduces co-occurence of psychiatric conditions, substance abuse, and/or developmental disabilities, examining history including traditional recovery models, contradictory practices, bio-physiological effects, and shift from separate to parallel to integrated treatment approaches.

CRMH 800. Clinical Rehabilitation & Mental Health Counseling Research & Program Evaluations. 3 Credits.
Research methods, evidence-based practice, and ethical, legal, and cultural issues related to research and evaluation. Covers basic statistics, library research for rehabilitation-related information, proposal development, and grant writing.

CRMH 802. Practicum in Clinical Rehabilitation & Mental Health Counseling. 5 Credits.
Practicum in Clinical Rehabilitation & Mental Health Counseling Provides students the opportunity to apply knowledge and counseling skills in a clinical setting and move to a more advanced level of counseling skill. Includes clinical training in assessing lethality, identifying and reporting abuse, counselor safety, Rehabilitation Counseling ethics, and HIPAA review.

CRMH 806. Applied Counseling Skills in Clinical Rehabilitation & Mental Health Counseling. 5 Credits.
Designed to teach foundational counseling skills that will enable students to begin counseling. Focus on counseling individuals with mental illness and developmental disabilities. Includes ethics and multicultural awareness.

CRMH 810. Internship in Clinical Rehabilitation & Mental Health Counseling. 10 Credits.
Direct experience with clients/patients in either PD or DD settings.

CRMH 814. Intro to CRMH Counseling with People with Developmental Disabilities and Psychiatric Disabilities. 3 Credits.
Historical perspective, description, diagnoses, classification, etiology, patterns of functioning, current best practices with focus on RCP service delivery and community support; day-in-the-life component included.

CRMH 816. Evidence-Based Counseling Practices with People with Developmental Disabilities. 1.5 Credits.
Prepares students for counseling practice with persons with developmental disabilities, focusing on achievement of a participatory, person-centered, independent, productive community life.

CRMH 818. Evidence-Based Counseling Practices with People with Psychiatric Disabilities. 1.5 Credits.
Prepare students for counseling practice with persons with psychiatric conditions; covers evidence-based practice and coordination strategies focusing or, support of recovery, achievement of healthy, independent, and productive community life.

CRMH 822. Marriage, Couple & Family Counseling in Clinical Rehabilitation & Mental Health Counseling. 3 Credits.
Provides a general framework for understanding individuals with disabilities and chronic illnesses in the context of the family and related systems.

CRMH 890. Special Topics in Clinical Rehabilitation & Mental Health Counseling. 1-3 Credits.
Faculty-mentored independent study to pursue specific interests and topics.

CRMH 992. Master's (Non-Thesis). 3 Credits.
Individual work by a student (supervised by faculty) to explore an area of interest in a research paper, program development, or a professional project.

CRMH 993. Master's Research and Thesis. 3 Credits.
Individual research supervised by a faculty member in a special field of study.

