LTAM 52. First-Year Seminar: The Cuban Revolution, Latin America, and the United States. 3 Credits.
The Cuban Revolution, Latin America, and the United States will explore multiple facets of the Cuban Revolution and its impact in Latin America and the United States. The Cuban Revolution was received throughout much of the region as a model through which to address historic conditions of inequality, injustice and indigence. This seminar examines this historic moment.

LTAM 89. First-Year Seminar: Special Topics. 3 Credits.
Special topics course. Content will vary each semester.

LTAM 101. Introduction to Latin American Studies. 3 Credits.
A broad interdisciplinary introduction to the field of Latin American studies.

LTAM 215. Peoples, Cultures, and Landscapes of Latin America. 3 Credits.
Peoples, Cultures, and Landscapes of Latin America explores the peopling of the Americas by Amerindian, African and Afro descendant peoples, and Europeans. It will consider the inequalities of power, wealth, and autonomy across gender, ethnicity, and class in Latin America to understand more fully their deep historical roots and their persistence into our own time. We will learn how Latin America takes on greater meaning, when we consider this subcontinent in different phases of globalization.

LTAM 291. The Latino Experience in the United States. 3 Credits.
This is a reading and discussion seminar that will introduce students to topics in the history of Latinos in the United States from the 19th century to the present.

LTAM 314. Law and Society in Latin America. 3 Credits.
This course considers how a wide variety of groups in Latin America including indigenous people, Afro-descendant communities, women and religious minorities used the law to shape and challenge larger structures of imperial rule.

LTAM 350. The United States and Latin America. 3 Credits.
A thematic examination of US-Latin America relations spanning the 19th century to the present through multi-disciplinary perspectives and inter-disciplinary methodologies, including popular culture, film, original documents, and social science scholarship. To explore the evolving US-Latin America "relationship," the ways in which North Americans and Latin Americans came to know each other, through frequent encounters and close engagement, not only as a matter of government-to-government and state-to-state relations but also as people-to-people contacts and culture-to-culture exchanges.

LTAM 390. Special Topics in Latin American Studies. 3 Credits.
No description available.

LTAM 396. Independent Study. 1-3 Credits.
Independent project to be arranged with an instructor.

LTAM 401. Guanajuato Service Learning. 1 Credits.
This course uses experiential education to explore how Mexicans are building opportunities in migratory communities in the transnational city of Guanajuato. This one-credit course is open to students participating in the UNC Study Abroad Program at the University of Guanajuato, Mexico. Students submit a final paper.

LTAM 402. Heritage and Migration in North Carolina. 3 Credits.
This course combines field research, oral history, and service learning to understand the immigration and settlement of Mexican and Latin American heritage communities in North Carolina. The course will address the ethical and practical aspects of the ethnographic method including the preparation, transaction and transcription of oral history interviews. Students will participate in a digital archive initiative and complete independent original research. Open to juniors and seniors and graduate students.

LTAM 411. Summer Intensive Introductory Course in Yucatec Maya. 6 Credits.
A three-part intensive introduction to spoken and written modern Yucatec Maya, including classroom instruction; culture, history, and linguistics workshops; and a four-week field study in Yucatán, Mexico.

LTAM 512. Summer Intensive Continuing Course in Yucatec Maya. 6 Credits.
Continuing instruction in spoken and written Yucatec Maya. Classroom instruction; culture, history, and linguistics workshops; and field study. Taught in Yucatán, Mexico.

LTAM 690. Seminar in Latin American Issues. 3 Credits.
Special topics course. Content will vary each semester.

LTAM 691H. Honors in Latin American Studies. 3 Credits.
Directed independent research leading to the preparation of an honors thesis.

LTAM 692H. Honors in Latin American Studies. 3 Credits.
Completion of the honors thesis and an oral examination of the thesis.

LTAM 697. Capstone Seminar. 3 Credits.
Interdisciplinary core seminar required of Latin American studies majors and open to other students. Topics vary by semester.

LTAM 767. Schooling of Latinos. 3 Credits.
Exploration of racial/ethnic differences in educational achievement and persistence in school including language and schooling and the interplay of race, gender, and class.

LTAM 768. Education in Latin America. 3 Credits.
Exploration of the relationship between national development and education. The process through which groups form their cultural and social identities. Theoretical perspectives drawn from development studies, globalization and comparative education.

LTAM 900. RES TOP LAT AM STUD. 3 Credits.
No description available.

