CLSC 150. Current Topics in Clinical Laboratory Medicine. 1 Credits.
A survey of topics in laboratory medicine including transfusions, forensic science, infectious diseases, and hematologic diseases.

CLSC 410. Laboratory Mathematics. 1 Credits.
Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Basic mathematical principles, calculations, quality assurance, and method validation relevant to the clinical laboratory.

CLSC 410L. Basic and Molecular Laboratory Methods. 2 Credits.
Majors only. Basic skills associated with the clinical laboratory including pipetting, spectrophotometry, standard curves, dilutions, and immunoassays. Molecular methods include small volume pipetting, microwell plating, nucleic acid extraction, and PCR techniques.

CLSC 420. Urinalysis and Body Fluids. 1 Credits.
Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. The physical, chemical, and microscopic analysis of body fluids in the clinical laboratory with an emphasis on correlation of laboratory data.

CLSC 420L. Urinalysis Laboratory. 1 Credits.
For Clinical Laboratory Science majors only. The physical, chemical, and microscopic examination of urine with an emphasis on the correlation of laboratory data.

CLSC 430. Biochemistry. 3 Credits.
Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Physiological biochemistry of the metabolic pathways and alterations in selected diseases. Also includes principles and applications of molecular techniques in the clinical laboratory.

CLSC 440. Hematology I. 2 Credits.
Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Introduction to normal hematopoiesis, blood cell function and identification, hematologic tests, principles of hemostasis, and hemostasis disorders.

CLSC 440L. Hematology I Laboratory. 1 Credits.
Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Basic clinical assays for identification and evaluation of erythrocytes, leukocytes, and platelets with an emphasis on microscopy. Also includes coagulation testing.

CLSC 442. Hematology II. 3 Credits.
Majors only. Hematologic disorders involving erythrocytes and leukocytes, with an emphasis on the analysis and interpretation of laboratory data.

CLSC 442L. Hematology II Laboratory. 1 Credits.
Majors only. Microscopic identification and evaluation of abnormal erythrocyte and leukocyte morphology, correlation with other laboratory data, and clinical interpretation.

CLSC 450. Immunology. 3 Credits.
Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Basic immunology and serology. Innate and immune body defenses. The development and properties of cellular and humoral elements and their alterations in pathological and other conditions.

CLSC 460. Special Pathogens. 2 Credits.
Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Study of clinically significant fungi, parasites, and atypical or unusual bacteria. Correlation of disease, disease transmission, mechanisms of pathogenicity, and diagnostic testing.

CLSC 460L. Parasitology and Mycology Laboratory. 1 Credits.
Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Clinical laboratory diagnostic methods for human parasitic and fungal infections. Microscopic morphology of fungal organisms and parasites, including their various life cycle forms.

CLSC 462. Clinical Bacteriology. 3 Credits.
Majors only. Principles and practice of clinical bacteriology. Study of medically significant bacteria with correlation of human disease, mechanisms of bacterial pathogenicity, and laboratory diagnostics.

CLSC 462L. Clinical Bacteriology Laboratory. 2 Credits.
Majors only. A comprehensive course describing bacteria that infect humans. Correlation of diseases and pathological mechanisms of bacteria.

CLSC 470. Clinical Chemistry. 3 Credits.
Majors only. An introduction to the methods of analysis used in the clinical chemistry laboratory. Emphasis on the correlation of chemistry laboratory values with disease states.

CLSC 470L. Clinical Chemistry Laboratory. 2 Credits.
Majors only. Performance of clinical laboratory assays for significant biochemical molecules. Principles of analysis, quality control, method evaluation, and basic laboratory instrumentation are presented.

CLSC 480. Immunohematology. 3 Credits.
Majors only. Introduction to blood group serology with an emphasis on the major blood group systems, pretransfusion testing, and antibody identification.

CLSC 480L. Immunohematology Laboratory. 2 Credits.
Majors only. Laboratory techniques for red cell typing, antibody identification, and pretransfusion testing.

CLSC 540L. Clinical Hematology Laboratory. 4 Credits.
Majors only. Laboratory rotation in clinical hematology.

CLSC 542L. Clinical Hemostasis Laboratory. 2 Credits.
Majors only. Laboratory rotation in clinical coagulation.

CLSC 550L. Clinical Immunology Laboratory. 1 Credits.
Majors only. Laboratory rotation in clinical immunology.

CLSC 560L. Clinical Microbiology Laboratory. 4 Credits.
Majors only. Laboratory rotation in clinical microbiology.

CLSC 570L. Clinical Chemistry Laboratory Rotation. 4 Credits.
Majors only. Laboratory rotation in clinical chemistry.

CLSC 580L. Clinical Immunohematology Laboratory. 4 Credits.
Laboratory rotation in clinical immunohematology. Majors only.

CLSC 582L. Clinical Transplantation Medicine Laboratory. 1 Credits.
Majors only. Clinical rotation in histocompatibility, flow cytometry, and hematopoietic progenitor cell laboratories.

CLSC 620. Clinical Laboratory Management. 2 Credits.
Majors only. Foundation in the technical and nontechnical aspects of supervision and management of clinical laboratory testing.

CLSC 630. Research Methods in Clinical Laboratory Science. 2 Credits.
Majors only. An overview of the knowledge of research design and methods commonly used in the clinical laboratory research arena, providing the basis for the critical examination of professional literature.

CLSC 670. Clinical Laboratory Science Educational Methods. 2 Credits.
Majors only. Introduction to the basic principles of clinical laboratory education, including objectives, learning formats, test development, and clinical teaching.

CLSC 695. Undergraduate Research in Clinical Laboratory Science. 3 Credits.
This mentored and self-directed course provides students with research experience in the clinical laboratory field. Students will apply knowledge of research methods to generate results and communicate results to others. This is a clinical laboratory science elective course. Seniors only.

CLSC 708. Biostatistics for Laboratory Professionals. 3 Credits.
This course prepares MCLS students to be critical consumers of scientific publications describing clinical research. Topics include organization and quality of data, types of research studies, frequency distributions, summary statistics, random and discrete variables, probability distributions, statistical inference, hypothesis testing, confidence intervals, parametric vs. non-parametric tests, descriptive statistics, drawing inferences from and comparing means, correlation and regression analysis, and the analysis of proportions. Majors only.

CLSC 710. MDS PRINCIPLES. 3 Credits.
Fundamental principles of molecular technology and techniques used in clinical and research laboratories. Topics include: an overview of nucleic acid chemistry, molecular genetics & cytogenetics; nucleic acid extraction and hybridization; target, signal and probe amplification; sequencing, microarrays, and in-situ hybridization techniques. Techniques will be addressed in the context of the different areas of the laboratory that use molecular technology to include genetics, oncology, infectious disease, and identity testing both for forensic purposes and transplantation.

CLSC 720. Molecular Genetics and Diseases. 3 Credits.
This course offers an overview of molecular genetics in relation to human variation and disease. Basics of disease are discussed, and diagnosis and treatment explored. Molecular techniques are addressed in context of different areas of the laboratory that use molecular technology: inherited disease, oncology, infectious disease, and identity testing. By the end of the course, students will better understand molecular causes of many diseases and disorders that are investigated using molecular diagnostics. MCLS majors only.

CLSC 722. Molecular Diagnostic Science Applications. 3 Credits.
This course covers the performance of basic and advanced techniques used in molecular testing, to include nucleic acid extraction, quantitation, hybridization, amplification, and analysis. Interpretation and quality control techniques are emphasized throughout the course. Students will learn about the different applications of molecular diagnostic testing in the clinical laboratory setting and understand how this testing is used to help patients. Previously offered as CLSC 720L. MCLS majors only.

CLSC 730. Research Methods. 3 Credits.
An overview of research design and methods used in clinical laboratory research. The course covers methodological and ethical considerations influencing research design and prepares student to critically examine professional literature.

CLSC 735. Method Evaluation. 3 Credits.
This course covers the knowledge and skills needed to determine the clinical value and analytical validity of a new assay in a clinical laboratory. Topics include regulatory requirements, quality control, as well as verification and validation studies. Majors Only.

CLSC 750. Clinical Laboratory Science Laboratory Administration. 3 Credits.
This course provides a foundation in the technical and non-technical aspects of supervising and managing clinical laboratory testing services within the current health care delivery system. Topics include: regulation of clinical laboratories, accreditation of laboratories, financial management, information systems management, management of the quality of clinical laboratory testing, personnel management, leadership and communication skills, and ethics in the clinical laboratory testing environment. Previously offered as CLSC 650. MCLS majors only.

CLSC 765. Principles of Health Care Systems and Leadership for Laboratory Professionals. 3 Credits.
This course provides a foundation in the health care system, public health, and leadership aspects for clinical laboratory professionals. Major topic areas addressed include: the history of the healthcare system and its organization, the financing of the healthcare system and its costs, the healthcare workforce, the core functions of public health, social determinants of health, and leadership within the healthcare arena. Majors only.

CLSC 770. Educational Methods and Applications. 3 Credits.
This course provides an overview of educational methods to prepare students for future roles as educators in clinical laboratories, educational programs and in corporate settings. Topics include continuing education, competency assurance, certification and accreditation.

CLSC 772. Education and Research in Clinical Laboratory Science. 3 Credits.
This is a required course in the Master's of Clinical Laboratory Science for students who have graduated from the UNC-CLS program in the past 10 years. This course builds on the content of the UNC CLS undergraduate courses in education and research and prepares students for future roles as educators and researchers in the clinical laboratory profession. Majors only.

CLSC 775. Education Practicum. 3 Credits.
This course prepares MCLS-MLS students for future roles as educators and includes course design, writing goals and objectives, presenting lectures, preparing student laboratory exercises, and evaluating instruction. Students will work closely with a CLS faculty advisor in the design, delivery and evaluation of an instructional unit. Majors only.

CLSC 780. Capstone. 3 Credits.
This course represents the culmination of the MCLS-MLS program. Students will use the information from all their courses to address a problem or important issue in the clinical laboratory profession. Students will design and complete a project in laboratory education, laboratory operations, or advanced laboratory practice. Majors only.

CLSC 790. Capstone II. 3 Credits.
This course represents the culmination of the MCLS-MLS program. Students will use the information from all their courses to address a problem or important issue in the clinical laboratory profession. In Capstone II, students will complete a project in laboratory education, laboratory operations, or advanced laboratory practice. Restricted to majors only.

