EXSS 10. Beginning Ballet. 1 Credits.
The technique and vocabulary of classical ballet are presented. Exercises at the barre are followed by practice and combinations in the center. Previously offered as PHYA 208.

EXSS 11. Introduction to Dance Technique. 1 Credits.
This course is an introduction to the positions, exercises, and steps common to ballet, jazz, and modern dance. It is designed for students with no previous dance experience and is a prerequisite for EXSS 10, 12, and 13. Previously offered as PHYA 212.

EXSS 12. Beginning Modern Dance. 1 Credits.
Students will explore the principles of movement that define modern dance, gaining some understanding of the use of weight, the shape of the body in space, an awareness of timing and energy, and individual creative potential. Previously offered as PHYA 224.

EXSS 13. Beginning Jazz Dance. 1 Credits.
Students will explore the roots of the jazz style through rhythm, principles of isolation and opposition, shape and energy through center work, stretches, movement across the floor, and simple routines. Previous ballet training is highly recommended. Previously offered as PHYA 220.

EXSS 14. Beginning Social Dance. 1 Credits.
The basic step patterns of popular social dances, such as fox trot, waltz, cha-cha, swing or shag, hustle, tango, and others are taught. Confidence in the ability to lead or to follow is developed. Social enjoyment of dance is emphasized. Previously offered as PHYA 231.

EXSS 20. Intermediate Ballet. 1 Credits.
For the dancer with a solid understanding of the basics of ballet and several years' dance training. It emphasizes more sophisticated steps in longer combinations. Previously offered as PHYA 308.

EXSS 21. Intermediate Jazz Dance. 1 Credits.
Students will explore the jazz style in greater complexity plus gain understanding of jazz music as it relates to jazz dance. It includes center work, complex movement phrases across floor, adagio, and routines using large movement vocabulary. At least two years of dance and familiarity with jazz style are recommended. Previously offered as PHYA 320.

EXSS 22. Intermediate Modern Dance. 1 Credits.
Students will work to develop greater technical skill and continue a more advanced exploration of modern dance principles of effort-shape through center work and phrases of greater length and complexity in the center and across the floor. At least two years of modern dance training are recommended. Previously offered as PHYA 324.

EXSS 30. Advanced Ballet. 1 Credits.
For the dancer with substantial background in ballet. Speed, endurance, multiple turns, beats, and complicated combinations are emphasized. Previously offered as PHYA 408.

EXSS 32. Advanced Modern Dance. 1 Credits.
This course is designed for the dancer with a solid understanding of the principles underlying modern dance and several years of dance training. It focuses on longer and more complicated phases of movements. Previously offered as PHYA 424.

EXSS 50. First-Year Seminar: Discrimination and Sport. 3 Credits.
This course will examine the American ethos by looking at those who have been discriminated against in sport because of race, gender, sexual orientation, or disability.

EXSS 51. First-Year Seminar: Entrepreneurship in Human Performance and Sport. 3 Credits.
This course will provide students an introduction to the practical entrepreneurial business tools for starting a new business (or for use in an existing organization) in the human performance and/or sport industry.

EXSS 53. Brain Matters: The Human Computer. 3 Credits.
The human brain remains one of the greatest anatomical and physiological mysteries remaining for us to explore. Containing over 100 billion neurons, each with 1,000-10,000 synapses, the human brain serves as the hub of everything we do. The most sophisticated 'computer' in existence, this course will provide first year students from all majors with an interdisciplinary approach to studying the human brain. Discussions will explore topics including anatomy, neurodevelopment, decision-making, maturation, disease, and more. Honors version available.

EXSS 55. First-Year Seminar: Sport Engineering and Human Performance. 3 Credits.
This first year seminar is designed to discuss the limits of human performance and equipment that is engineered to enhance performance. How fast is it possible to run or swim? Will Olympic records continue to be broken? When do we reach our full athletic potential? This course is designed to challenge your thinking about performance using the science that governs biomechanics and human physiology as well as exploring the data that drives equipment development.

EXSS 89. First-Year Seminar: Special Topics. 3 Credits.
Course content will vary each semester. Honors version available.

EXSS 141. Personal Health. 3 Credits.
Elective, open to all students. This course examines basic wellness concepts in the areas of physical fitness, nutrition, disease prevention, mental health, drug abuse, and human sexuality. Emphasis is on the individual's responsibility for his/her own health.

EXSS 155. Human Anatomy and Physiology I. 3 Credits.
This course is targeted to students enrolled in Department of Exercise and Sport Science majors as well as other students with interest in medical professions. This course involves a systematic approach to human anatomy and physiology with an emphasis on the musculoskeletal, articular and nervous systems as well as anatomical terminology and homeostasis. No prerequisites are required. Honors version available.

EXSS 175. Human Anatomy. 3 Credits.
The study of the structure of the human body with special emphasis on the musculoskeletal, articular, and nervous systems. Prosected cadaver materials are utilized to study the skeletal muscles and body viscera.

EXSS 180. Physical Activity in Contemporary Society. 3 Credits.
This course is designed to examine of the role of physical activity/inactivity on the health and well-being of American society. Through reading, discussion, writing and critical thinking, students will explore what it means to be physically active, the importance of physical activity, and some of the barriers and facilitators that impact the ability of various individuals to participate in physical activity.

EXSS 181. Sport and Exercise Psychology. 3 Credits.
This course exposes students to psychological aspects contributing to sport/physical activity participation and psychological outcomes of participation. It explores psychological theories and research and their application to the affective, behavioral, and cognitive outcomes of sport/physical activity participants when considering key environmental factors.

EXSS 191. Theory and Practice of Modern Dance Technique - Elementary-Level Elective. 3 Credits.
An introduction to modern dance technique, history, and philosophy focusing on the physical principles of movement and their choreographic application. Students will participate in a combination of lectures and studio time.

EXSS 205. Analysis of Sport Skills I. 3 Credits.
A professional preparation course in the skills, knowledge, safety, and teaching progressions of basketball and soccer.

EXSS 206. Analysis of Sport Skills II. 3 Credits.
A professional preparation course in the skills, knowledge, safety, and teaching progressions of tennis and volleyball.

EXSS 207. Coaching Principles. 3 Credits.
A professional preparation course for teaching and coaching. Includes basic instruction in coaching education and principles, pedagogy for coaching, conditioning for athletes, and team building.

EXSS 208. Health and Physical Education in the Elementary School. 3 Credits.
This course deals with methods and materials of health and physical education in school levels kindergarten through sixth grade. Required of elementary education majors. Does not count toward physical education major.

EXSS 211. Adapted Physical Education. 3 Credits.
A study of problems related to body mechanics and the needs of the physically handicapped student.

EXSS 220. Fitness Management. 3 Credits.
Students develop a working knowledge of theories, principles, and operating procedures involved in managing programs, staff, and facilities in the health/fitness industry, including management, marketing, operations, legal aspects.

EXSS 221. Introduction to Sport Administration. 3 Credits.
In this course, students are introduced to the policies and problems of organizing and administering sport in public and private settings.

EXSS 223. International Sport Management. 3 Credits.
Because sport cuts across all international boundaries, students must understand the global implications of the sport industry. This course introduces students to the organization, governance, business activities, and intercultural issues in international sport.

EXSS 256. Human Anatomy and Physiology II. 3 Credits.
This course is targeted to students enrolled in Department of Exercise and Sport Science majors as well as other students with interest in medical professions. This course involves a systematic approach to human anatomy and physiology with an emphasis on the metabolic, endocrine, digestive, cardiovascular, respiratory, renal, integumentary and immune systems.

EXSS 260. Women and Sport. 3 Credits.
A broad based perspective of women's participation in sport including history of participation, physiological differences, and socio-cultural influences including work, politics, family, economics, and gender roles and identity.

EXSS 265. Fundamentals of Sports Medicine. 3 Credits.
This course is designed to introduce the undergraduate student to the sports medicine profession and to provide the basic knowledge and skills necessary to recognize, evaluate, and treat injuries to the head and face, cervical spine, thoracic region, abdominal/urogenital region, and extremities.

EXSS 273. Research in Exercise and Sport Science. 3 Credits.
An introduction to research in the fields of physical education, exercise, and sport science with emphasis on understanding and application of research findings.

EXSS 275L. Human Anatomy Laboratory. 1 Credits.
EXSS 275L is a basic human anatomy laboratory course designed to accompany EXSS 155 or EXSS 175. For students endeavoring to major in the allied health professions.

EXSS 276. Human Physiology. 3 Credits.
Instructor may approve equivalents for prerequisite. A lecture course in elementary physiology, covering the various systems of the body.

EXSS 288. Emergency Care of Athletic Injuries and Illnesses. 3 Credits.
Recommended preparation, EXSS 155 or EXSS 175. Theory and practice of basic first aid, cardiopulmonary resuscitation, and the acute care of athletic injuries.

EXSS 290. Special Topics in EXSS. 3 Credits.
Variable topics course in Exercise and Sports Science. Honors version available.

EXSS 291. Theory and Practice of Modern Dance Technique - Intermediate-Level Elective. 3 Credits.
An intensive study of modern dance technique and philosophy, focusing on the physical principles of movement and their choreographic application. One hour seminar and four and one-half hours laboratory.

EXSS 293. Internship in Exercise and Sport Science. 1-3 Credits.
The purpose of this course is to provide the student with a structured, supervised practical experience in exercise and sport science professional settings. Students will be individually mentored by on-site supervisors who will be responsible for assigning and assessing meaningful work, as well as providing training, feedback, and opportunities for participation in organizational activities. Students will receive guidance for professional development from their lead instructor in the form of in-class activities, assignments, and guest speakers. Restricted to EXSS general majors (not Fitness Professional or Sport Administration) with at least junior-year standing who are within 4 semesters of graduation, and a minimum 2.0 GPA (overall and within major).

EXSS 322. Fundamentals of Sport Marketing. 3 Credits.
This course is designed to introduce students to marketing within the sports industry, including the unique aspects of the sport product and sport consumer markets.

EXSS 323. Sport Facility and Event Management. 3 Credits.
This course is designed to develop practical competencies necessary for effectively managing sport facilities and events while providing students with experiential learning opportunities inside and outside the classroom.

EXSS 324. Finance and Economics of Sport. 3 Credits.
This course provides an understanding of the financial and economic growth of sport, economic theory applied to the sport industry, and the basic principles and methods of sound fiscal control.

EXSS 325. The Role of Intercollegiate Athletics in Higher Education. 3 Credits.
This course is designed to help students interested in working in college sports understand what that role has been and might be in the future, with an emphasis on maximizing the educational value of intercollegiate athletic participation and the integration of athletics with academic and student life dimensions on college campuses.

EXSS 326. Legal Aspects of Sport. 3 Credits.
This course provides a foundation in general legal concepts and familiarizes students with the legal areas they are most likely to encounter as managers in the sports and fitness industry.

EXSS 327. Predictive Analytics in Sport. 3 Credits.
This course is designed to provide students with an introduction to predictive analytics utilizing regression-based modeling approaches. As a CURE course, students will learn the iterative process of model building through trial and error and by working with other students on hands-on problems. At the conclusion of this course, students will be able to analyze sport-related data using predictive analytics, whether the dependent variable is continuous or binary in nature. Honors version available.

EXSS 328. Sport Business Venture. 3 Credits.
This course will provide students an introduction to practical entrepreneurial business tools for starting a new business (or for use in an existing organization) in the sport industry.

EXSS 330. Sociocultural Aspects of Sport and Exercise. 3 Credits.
This course will enhance students' understandings about social and cultural dimensions of sport and exercise contexts. Through directed readings, classroom conversations, assignments/projects, and guest speakers, students in this course will learn how these sociocultural realities 1) are explored through academic research, and 2) impact sport and exercise policy, programs, and innovation, and 3) impact sport and exercise constituents, such as participants, planners, leaders, and advocates. This is an elective course for all junior/senior EXSS majors. EXSS majors, Junior/Senior standing

EXSS 360. Sports Nutrition. 3 Credits.
The role of nutrition in maximizing physical performance, promoting health, and controlling body weight. Includes individual nutritional assessments.

EXSS 366. Foundations of Sports Medicine Rehabilation. 3 Credits.
This course is designed to introduce undergraduate students to the basic principles and skills used to rehabilitate sport related injuries with an emphasis on musculoskeletal injuries.

EXSS 367. Therapeutic Modalities. 3 Credits.
This is an advanced athletic training course, designed to provide the athletic training student with knowledge and skills necessary for treating injuries.

EXSS 368. Therapeutic Exercise and Rehabilitation. 3 Credits.
This is an advanced athletic training course, designed to provide the athletic training student with knowledge and skills necessary for rehabilitating injuries.

EXSS 369. Athletic Training Seminar. 3 Credits.
A presentation of the historical and current perspectives on athletic training, including techniques for organizing and administering athletic training programs.

EXSS 370. General Medicine in Athletic Training. 3 Credits.
Advanced course focusing on understanding instrumentation used in assessing internal injury related to sport. Pharmacology, drug testing, psychosocial interventions, and selected emergency procedures pertaining to athletic injury are also presented.

EXSS 376. Physiological Basis of Human Performance. 4 Credits.
Instructor may approve equivalents for EXSS prerequisites. Students must take laboratory section along with class. The application of physiological principles to sport and physical activity. Both immediate and chronic adaptations to exercise are studied. Two lecture and two laboratory hours a week.

EXSS 380. Neuromuscular Control and Learning. 3 Credits.
This course introduces neuromuscular control and motor learning through a general understanding of neuroanatomy/neurophysiology, sensory contributions to human movement, initiation and regulation of voluntary movement, and the acquisition of motor skills. Course topics include central and peripheral nervous system functions in the production and regulation of human movement, neural pathways and control mechanisms, and enhancement of motor learning in the rehabilitation and training settings. Honors version available.

EXSS 385. Biomechanics of Sport. 3 Credits.
This course introduces the principles of biomechanics, including kinematics, kinetics, projectile motion, fluid forces and statics analysis. It includes the application of both kinematics and kinetic variables to joint motion and sport activities. Instructor may approve equivalents for EXSS prerequisite.

EXSS 391. Undergraduate Learning Assistanship. 1 Credits.
This course is designed for undergraduate students to provide course support to their peers. This course provides opportunities for students to prepare, demonstrate, and consult with their peers via in- and out-of-class activities. Students will gain an enhanced understanding of Exercise and Sport Science content with a lens towards explaining to less experienced students, gaining pedagogical knowledge and experience, and engaging in comprehensive, concise, and clear oral and written communication. EXSS Majors only; Successful completion, with a grade of C or higher, of the course you are assisting

EXSS 393. Sports Medicine Clinical. 1-3 Credits.
This field experience offers implementation of theories and practices of athletic training and sports medicine under the supervision of a certified athletic trainer.

EXSS 395. Undergraduate Research Course. 1-3 Credits.
Permission of the instructor. Majors preferred. Laboratory/research study addressing exercise and sport science questions. Requires final written report. Repeatable for six total credits.

EXSS 396. Independent Studies in Exercise and Sport Science Elective. 1-3 Credits.
Required preparation, any two relevant courses. Permission of the instructor. Individually designed in-depth study in an area of interest within exercise and sport science. Available to both majors and nonmajors under the supervision of selected EXSS faculty members.

EXSS 397. Critical Analysis of Literature in Sport and Exercise Psychology. 1 Credits.
This course will expose students to research in sport and exercise psychology using the C.R.E.A.T.E. (Consider, Read, Elucidate the hypotheses, Analyze and interpret the data, and Think of the next Experiment) framework. Students will follow the historical publications of one sport and exercise psychology research group to better understand the research process. Each research paper will be digested/critiqued in phases. Student will also formulate their own novel research questions and present them to the class.

EXSS 408. Theory and Application of Strength Training and Conditioning for Fitness Professionals. 3 Credits.
Students will learn to design an individualized fitness plan for a "healthy" adult for common fitness goals by assessing their movement and fitness, exercise leadership, and program design. This class, in part, prepares students for the NASM certified personal training (CPT) certification.

EXSS 409. Exercise Prescription for Special Populations. 3 Credits.
Exercise benefits everybody. This course will teach evidence-based information for developing, modifying and implementing fitness programs for individuals with chronic disease, metabolic, cardiac, pulmonary, and other issues deemed as special populations. The knowledge and skills attained in this course will enhance any basic personal training certification and give a better understanding of working with what could be considered the general public.

EXSS 410. Exercise Testing and Prescription. 4 Credits.
This course is designed to provide theoretical and practical knowledge in basic exercise testing and prescription for both healthy and select special populations. This course includes both lectures and a lab. Priority registration is given to EXSS- Fitness Professional students and permission to enroll is obtained by completing the form linked in the registration section in Connect Carolina.

EXSS 420. Program Planning in Recreation Services. 3 Credits.
This experiential course covers the concepts and skills used in program planning. Students apply their program planning skills to real-life situations and implement a recreation program for a community agency. Previously offered as RECR 420.

EXSS 424. Sport Sales and Revenue Production Seminar. 3 Credits.
This course will analyze and produce skills essential to the revenue production and sales process commonly found in the sport business. In this class students will develop an understanding and appreciation for the sales and revenue-production process related to a sport franchise and/or organization.

EXSS 430. Introduction to Leadership and Group Dynamics. 3 Credits.
An analysis of the techniques, methods, and motives of group and community leaders. Special attention is focused upon the roles of organizational structure, personnel policies, and in-service training programs. Previously offered as RECR 430.

EXSS 433L. Exercise Technique. 1 Credits.
This course is designed to teach students how to lead and coach a group of individuals toward movement proficiency in common athletic-based exercises.

EXSS 450. Essentials of Corrective Exercise Training. 3 Credits.
Students will learn to explain, design, and execute a corrective exercise program to improve movement quality. Students will be introduced to skills such as range of motion, strength, and movement quality assessments. This class, in-part, prepares students for the NASM corrective exercise specialist (CES) certification.

EXSS 475. Functional Anatomy. 3 Credits.
This course provides an in-depth exploration of joint mechanics. It exposes students to motions of the cervical, thoracic, and lumbar spine as well as the extremities, and relates these concepts to movement of the body during specific activities.

EXSS 478. Sports Performance Training. 3 Credits.
This course focuses on the foundational knowledge needed to train athletes, including performance assessment, coaching exercise technique, and program design. This class, in part, prepares students for the NSCA Certified Strength and Conditioning Specialist (CSCS) certification.

EXSS 479. Performance Enhancement Specialization for Health Professionals. 1 Credits.
This course is designed for certified athletic trainers (ATC) and gives them advanced rehab and performance skills that can be used during an athlete's return to sport progression. Students will learn to assess movement quality and performance, lead an individual through common strength and conditioning exercises, and write a basic performance plan based on NASM strategies. This class, in-part, prepares students for the NASM performance enhancement specialist (PES) certification.

EXSS 493. Field Experience in Sport Administration. 3 Credits.
This field experience offers implementation of theory and the practical application of sport administration in a sport organization worksite, under the direct supervision of a business professional.

EXSS 573. Sport Injury Epidemiology. 3 Credits.
This course will introduce the student to the public health importance and epidemiology of injuries and other medical conditions in sport and physical activity. Previously offered as EXSS 373.

EXSS 576. Exercise Endocrinology. 3 Credits.
Advanced course examining the responses of the endocrine system to exercise and the adaptations that occur with exercise training. Provides the fundamentals necessary for exercise science and allied health science students to understand the integral role that the endocrine system plays in exercise.

EXSS 580. Neuromechanics of Human Movement. 3 Credits.
This course explores interactions between the nervous and musculoskeletal systems via integration of concepts from neuroanatomy, neurophysiology, anatomy, neuromuscular control, and biomechanics. Topics include muscle mechanics, sensorimotor function, joint stability, movement disorders, neurocognition, and neuroplasticity following injury and disease.

EXSS 581. Biopsychosocial Aspects of Sport Injury. 3 Credits.
This course is designed to explore the theory and research related to the biopsychosocial approach to treating patients experiencing sport injury and undergoing rehabilitation. Application and synthesis of biopsychosocial theories and biopsychosocial therapy interventions into sport injury research and clinical practice will occur. The focus is on theory and application of various psychological concepts.

EXSS 593. Practicum in Physical Fitness and Wellness. 1-9 Credits.
A field experience (i.e., internship) in a local fitness & wellness or strength and conditioning setting designed for students to apply their classroom knowledge and skills, in a worksite of their choice, under the direct supervision of certified professionals. This class is only open to EXSS - Fitness Professional students. Permission to enroll is obtained by attending a practicum Permission to enroll is obtained by attending a practicum registration meeting one semester in advance.

EXSS 693H. Senior Honors Thesis. 3 Credits.
Required preparation, a cumulative grade point average meeting the University standard and permission of the department. Directed independent research under the supervision of a faculty advisor who teaches in the exercise and sport science curriculum.

EXSS 694H. Senior Honors Thesis. 3 Credits.
Required preparation, a cumulative grade point average meeting the University standard and permission of the department. Preparation of an honors thesis and an oral examination on the thesis.

EXSS 700. Applied Statistics and Research Methods in Exercise and Sport Science. 3 Credits.
Required preparation, undergraduate statistics course. Applied statistical analysis - interpretation of data from exercise and sport science. Emphasis: choosing method of analysis, using statistics software to run analyses. Major topics: experimental and nonexperimental research design, sampling, hypothesis testing, power calculation, t-tests, ANOVA, correlation, simple and multiple regression, and chi square.

EXSS 705. Research Design and Methods. 1-3 Credits.
Required preparation, any undergraduate statistics course. Builds heavily upon material presented in EXSS 700. Planning, conducting, and reporting of research. Thesis writing and writing for publication. Problem-solving and practical experience in applied statistical analysis, interpretation, and presentation of data from the field of exercise and sport science.

EXSS 730. Management of Athletic Injuries. 3 Credits.
Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Designed to provide basic knowledge and skills that aid in the prevention and treatment of injuries common to athletics.

EXSS 732. Human Anatomy for Athletic Trainers. 4 Credits.
Graduate standing in exercise and sport science or permission of the instructor. The study of gross human anatomy, with emphasis on the functional and clinical aspects of the neck, back, and extremities as related to athletic injuries.

EXSS 733. Psychological Considerations for Injury and Rehabilitation. 3 Credits.
Athletic training graduate students only. Psychological impact of injury and rehabilitation on the injured athlete. Stress from injury, coping skills for the rigors of rehabilitation, and the improvement of communication skills in order to better the relationship between the athletic trainer, the injured athlete, and the injured athlete's coach.

EXSS 735. Sports Medicine Analysis: Special Problems Related to Sports Medicine. 3 Credits.
Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Problem and research oriented.

EXSS 736. Clinical Methods in Athletic Training. 3 Credits.
Analysis of theories and techniques used in clinical sports medicine settings.

EXSS 737. Advanced Muscular Assessment and Treatment. 3 Credits.
Discussion of mechanical properties and healing of musculoskeletal tissues throughout the life cycle, and laboratory/seminar units concerned with assessment and treatment of musculoskeletal pathology.

EXSS 738. Laboratory Techniques in Sports Medicine. 3 Credits.
This course provides an introduction to measurement techniques used in sports medicine/athletic training research. Course meetings involve lecture and laboratory sessions which encompass data collection, analysis, and interpretation techniques.

EXSS 739. Practicum in Athletic Training. 3 Credits.
Graduate standing in exercise and sport science or permission of the instructor. The implementation of theories and practices in a professional setting under the direction of a competent practitioner.

EXSS 740. Administration of Sport. 3 Credits.
Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Policies and problems of organization and administration of athletic programs in colleges.

EXSS 742. Social Issues in Exercise and Sport. 3 Credits.
A comprehensive study of race and gender discrimination, adherence, value development, violence, and other socialization factors in youth, collegiate, and Olympic sport.

EXSS 744. Collegiate Sport Marketing. 3 Credits.
Graduate standing required. This course is designed to develop a thorough understanding of sport marketing principles and their application to collegiate athletics.

EXSS 746. Organizational and Financial Management of Sport. 3 Credits.
Graduate standing in exercise and sport science or permission of the instructor. The study of administrative structures and financial concerns of collegiate athletic programs. An intensive study of NCAA regulations is included.

EXSS 747. College Sport Facility and Event Management. 3 Credits.
This course provides students with necessary knowledge and skills to manage college-sport facilities and plan a complete sport event. Students also evaluate facility functions related to risk and event management.

EXSS 748. Legal Issues in Collegiate Sport. 3 Credits.
Provides an introduction to the United States legal system, legal principles, and legal issues related to intercollegiate athletics.

EXSS 749. NCAA Governance and Compliance. 3 Credits.
The implementation of theories and practices in a professional setting under the direction of a competent practitioner.

EXSS 750. Sport Administration Leadership Seminar I. 1 Credits.
Successful completion of first year in sport administration graduate program. An introduction of organizational leadership concepts in a practical applied context. Students will lead class discussion tying relevant current events with leadership theory.

EXSS 751. Sport Administration Leadership Seminar II. 1 Credits.
Successful completion of first year in sport administration graduate program. An introduction of organizational leadership concepts in a practical applied context. Students will lead class discussion tying relevant current events with leadership theory.

EXSS 770. Motor Learning. 3 Credits.
A study of the physical and psychological factors that influence skill acquisition and performance in sport and exercise, including applications to teaching and coaching.

EXSS 780. Physiology of Exercise. 3 Credits.
The study of the physical, biochemical, and environmental factors that influence human performance. Emphasis is placed on metabolic, cardiovascular, respiratory, muscular, and endocrine systems. Three hours of lecture and two hours of laboratory per week.

EXSS 781. Clinical Exercise Prescription and Testing. 2-3 Credits.
This course concentrates on the knowledge and skills necessary for providing exercise testing and prescription in the clinical setting, emphasizing cardiac rehabilitation.

EXSS 782. Nutritional Aspects of Exercise. 2-3 Credits.
Graduate standing in physical education or permission of the instructor. Exploration of the role of macronutrients and micronutrients as they apply to exercise, physical conditioning, and competition. Students obtain experience in dietary analysis as it applies to athletic populations.

EXSS 783. Assessment of Physiological Functions in Exercise. 3 Credits.
Designed to develop laboratory techniques and experimental design skills as applied to the physiology of human performance.

EXSS 784. Advanced Topics in Exercise Physiology. 3 Credits.
Required preparation, completion of a graduate level exercise physiology course. Graduate standing required. This course deals with current and rapidly developing aspects of the exercise physiology field. Specifically enhancing and adding to the content area of basic physiology acquired in EXSS 780.

EXSS 785. Seminar in Exercise Physiology. 3 Credits.
Graduate standing in exercise and sport science or permission of the instructor. In-depth study of selected advanced topics in exercise physiology. Emphasis on metabolism, biochemical, and cardiorespiratory physiology, with student presentations on selected topics.

EXSS 789. Practicum in Exercise Physiology. 3-4 Credits.
The implementation of theories and practices of fitness or cardiac rehabilitation in a professional setting under the direction of an experienced practitioner.

EXSS 890. Special Topics in Exercise and Sport Science. 1-3 Credits.
Graduate standing or permission of the instructor. The study of special topics directed by an authority in the field.

EXSS 990. Research in Exercise and Sport Science. 1-3 Credits.
Graduate standing in exercise and sport science or permission of the instructor. Individually designed research projects conducted by students under the direction of a graduate faculty member.

EXSS 993. Master's Research and Thesis. 3 Credits.
No description available.

